Crypto.com Whitepaper 1.03
 August 2020
Version 1.03.17 - April 2021
This whitepaper is a working document that is subject to review and changes
Crypto.com 2
Contents
Disclaimers 4
Executive Summary 9
  Mission & Vision  9
  Problem Statement and Our Strategy 10
    Key Challenges in Driving Crypto Adoption 10
    Our Strategy 10
    Commitment to Security & Compliance 11
    Support of Fiat Institutions 12
Crypto.com Solutions Overview 13
Crypto.com Solutions - Payment 19
  Crypto.com Pay (powered by Crypto.org Chain) 19
  Crypto.org Chain 22
  Visa Card 29
Crypto.com Solutions - Trading 32
  Crypto.com App 32
  Crypto.com Exchange 34
Crypto.com Solutions - Financial Services 37
  Decentralized Financial Services 37
    Crypto.com DeFi Wallet 37
    Crypto.com DeFi Swap 39 
    Other Decentralized Offerings 40
  Crypto Earn (part of the Crypto.com App) 41
  Crypto Credit (part of the Crypto.com App) 42
Crypto.com 3
Contents
Crypto.com Solutions - Other Services & Benefits 43
  Crypto.com NFT 43
  Crypto.com Tax 44
  Crypto.com Private  44
  Referral Program 45
  Research & Insights 46
  Formula One Partnership 47
  Visa Principal Membership 47 
CRO Token 48
  Token Creation and Basic Information 48
  Token Distribution and Planned Use 49
  Token Utility 50
Crypto.com Team & Organization 52
  Management Profile 52
  Board of Advisors 57
Further Information 59
Crypto.com 4
Disclaimers
Licences and approvals are not assured in all jurisdictions
CRO Protocol Labs (“Crypto.com”) intends to operate in full compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations and use its best endeavours to obtain the 
necessary licences and approvals. Regulatory licences and/or approvals are 
likely to be required in a number of relevant jurisdictions in which relevant 
activities may take place. This means that the development and roll-out of 
all the initiatives described in this whitepaper are not guaranteed. It is not 
possible to guarantee, and no person makes any representations, warranties 
or assurances, that any such licences or approvals will be obtained within 
a particular timeframe or at all. As such, the initiatives described in this 
whitepaper may not be available in certain jurisdictions, or at all. This could 
require restructuring of these initiatives and/or its unavailability in all or certain 
respects. In addition, the development of any initiatives is intended to be 
implemented in stages. During certain stages of development, the project may 
rely on relationships with certain licensed third party entities. If these entities 
are no longer properly licensed in the relevant jurisdiction, this will impact the 
ability of Crypto.com to rely on the services of that party.
No advice
This whitepaper does not constitute any investment advice, financial 
advice, trading advice or recommendation by Crypto.com, its affiliates, or 
its respective officers, directors, managers, employees, agents, advisors or 
consultants on the merits of purchasing CRO tokens nor should it be relied 
upon in connection with any other contract or purchasing decision.
Not a sale of security
This whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or financial service offering 
document and is not an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any 
security, investment products, regulated products or financial instruments in 
any jurisdiction. CRO tokens are not being structured or sold as securities in 
Crypto.com. Owners of CRO tokens are not entitled to any rights in Crypto.
com or any of its affiliates, including any equity, shares, units, royalties to 
capital, profit, returns or income in Crypto.com or any other company or 
intellectual property associated with Crypto.com.
Crypto.com 5
No representations
No representations or warranties have been made to the recipient of 
this whitepaper or its advisers as to the accuracy or completeness of the 
information, statements, opinions or matters (express or implied) arising 
out of, contained in or derived from this whitepaper or any omission from 
this document or of any other written or oral information or opinions 
provided now or in the future to any interested party or their advisers. The 
CRO tokens, as envisaged in this whitepaper, are under development and 
are being constantly updated, including but not limited to key governance 
and technical features.  If and when the CRO tokens are completed, they 
may differ significantly from the description set out in this whitepaper. No 
representation or warranty is given as to the achievement or reasonableness 
of any plans, future projections or prospects and nothing in this document is 
or should be relied upon as a promise or representation as to the future. To the 
fullest extent possible, all liability for any loss or damage of whatsoever kind 
(whether foreseeable or not and whether or not Crypto.com has been advised 
of the possibility of such loss or damage) which may arise from any person 
acting on any information and opinions contained in this whitepaper or any 
information which is made available in connection with any further enquiries, 
notwithstanding any negligence, default or lack of care, is disclaimed.
Third party data
 
This whitepaper contains data and references obtained from third party 
sources. Whilst the management believes that these data are accurate 
and reliable, they have not been subject to independent audit, verification, 
or analysis by any professional legal, accounting, engineering, or financial 
advisors. There is no assurance as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness 
of the data.
 
Translations
This whitepaper and related materials are issued in English. Any translation is 
for reference purposes only and is not certified by any person. No assurance 
can be made as to the accuracy and completeness of any translations.  If there 
is any inconsistency between a translation and the English version of this 
whitepaper, the English version shall prevail.
Crypto.com 6
Restricted transmission
 
This whitepaper must not be taken or transmitted to any jurisdiction where 
distribution or dissemination of this whitepaper is prohibited or restricted.
Views of Crypto.com
The views and opinions expressed in this whitepaper are those of Crypto.
com and do not reflect the official policy or position of any government, 
quasi-government, authority or public body (including but not limited to any 
regulatory body) in any jurisdiction.  This whitepaper has not been reviewed 
by any regulatory authority.
Third party references
References in this whitepaper to specific companies, networks and/or 
potential use cases are for illustrative purposes only. The use of any company 
and/or platform names and trademarks does not imply any affiliation with, or 
recommendation or endorsement of/by, any of those parties.
All references to ‘dollars’, USD or ‘$’ are references to the United States Dollars 
unless otherwise stated.
Graphics
All graphics included in this whitepaper are for illustrative purposes only. In 
particular, graphics with price references do not translate into actual pricing 
information. 
Risk statements
Purchasing CRO tokens involves substantial risk and may lead to a loss of a 
substantial or entire amount of the money involved. Prior to purchasing CRO 
tokens, you should carefully assess and take into account the risks, including 
those listed in any other documentation.
A purchaser should not purchase CRO tokens for speculative or investment 
purposes. Purchasers should only purchase CRO tokens if they fully 
Crypto.com 7
understand the nature of the CRO tokens and accept the risks inherent to the 
CRO tokens.
Cryptographic tokens may be subject to expropriation and/or theft; hackers 
or other malicious groups or organizations may attempt to interfere with our 
system/network in various ways, including malware attacks, denial of service 
attacks, consensus-based attacks, Sybil attacks, smurfing, and spoofing which 
may result in the loss of your cryptographic tokens or the loss of your ability 
to access or control your cryptographic tokens. In such event, there may be no 
remedy, and holders of cryptographic tokens are not guaranteed any remedy, 
refund, or compensation.
The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens and digital assets is currently 
unsettled, varies among jurisdictions and subject to significant uncertainty. It 
is possible that in the future, certain laws, regulations, policies or rules relating 
to cryptographic tokens, digital assets, blockchain technology, or blockchain 
applications may be implemented which may directly or indirectly affect or 
restrict cryptographic token holders’ right to acquire, own, hold, sell, convert, 
trade, or use cryptographic tokens.
The uncertainty in tax legislation relating to cryptographic tokens and 
digital assets may expose cryptographic token holders to tax consequences 
associated with the use or trading of cryptographic token.
Digital assets and related products and services carry significant risks. 
Potential purchasers should take into account all of the above and assess the 
nature of, and their own appetite for, relevant risks independently and consult 
their advisers before making any decisions.
Professional advice
You should consult a lawyer, accountant, tax professional and/or any other 
professional advisors as necessary prior to determining whether to purchase 
CRO tokens.
Crypto.com 8
Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This whitepaper contains certain forward-looking statements regarding 
the business we operate that are based on the belief of Crypto.com as well 
as certain assumptions made by and information available to Crypto.com 
Forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to significant risks 
and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements may involve estimates and assumptions and 
are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our control and 
prediction. Accordingly, these factors could cause actual results or outcomes 
that differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of which such 
statement is made, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking 
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such 
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Crypto.com 9
Executive Summary 
Mission & Vision
Crypto.com was founded on the belief that it is your basic human right to 
control your money, data and identity. We believe that decentralization holds 
the key to empowering people around the world to better safeguard their 
rights, and that we are helping the world move in this direction by accelerating 
the transition to adopting cryptocurrency.
Mission:
Accelerate the World’s Transition to Cryptocurrency
We believe that by accelerating the transition to adopting cryptocurrency, we 
can help people globally to:
  Control their money - ability to access their funds anytime and anywhere;
   Safeguard their data - cryptography-secured blockchain makes data-
tempering highly unlikely;
  Protect their identity - no central entity can compromise your identity.
Vision:
Cryptocurrency in Every WalletTM. 
In our journey to achieve this vision, we are:
  Redefining how money is being moved, spent and invested, and
   Democratizing blockchain technology by designing beautiful, simple and 
useful financial services that have a lasting, positive impact on 
people’s lives. 
Crypto.com 10
Problem Statement and Our Strategy
Key Challenges in Driving Crypto Adoption
We see the following key challenges in driving crypto adoption:
Poorly designed user experience does not delight
User Experience
or satisfy mainstream users
Weak value propositions do not incentivize people 
Value Proposition to use crypto for purposes other 
than speculative trading 
Difficult to understand and 
Complexity
invest for new-to-crypto users
Damaged user conﬁdence from crypto-related
Security
fraud and theft
Our Strategy
To tackle the challenges above, we are offering products along 3 verticals:
  1.  Payment
  2.  Trading
  3.  Financial Services
Payment
User Acquisition
Our strategy is to leverage payment solutions 
as the primary tool for driving adoption 
and user acquisition, while building trading 
and financial services solutions as the major 
sources of revenue. This strategy creates and 
self-sustains a virtuous cycle: payment channels 
Trading &
bring users onto the platform, whereas trading 
Financial Services
and financial services generate revenue that can  Revenue Engine
be reinvested into payment.
Our product solutions across three verticals are building up a sustainable ecosystem 
that serves our mission: Accelerate the World’s Transition to Cryptocurrency.
Crypto.com 11
Commitment to Security & Compliance
Building trust is the cornerstone of our commitment to our customers - 
we believe that security and compliance are the foundations of achieving 
mainstream cryptocurrency adoption.
Crypto.com is the first cryptocurrency company in the world to have ISO/IEC 
27001:2013, ISO/IEC 27701:2019, PCI:DSS 3.2.1 Level 1 compliance.
ISO/IEC 27701:2019 Certification is the “Gold Standard” 
for privacy risk management (the audit was conducted 
by SGS, a leading inspection verification and certification 
company recognized globally).
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certification is the “Gold Standard” 
for information security management (the audit was led 
by SGS, a global leader in Testing, Inspection 
and Certification).
PCI:DSS (Payment Card Industry: Data Security Standard) 
outlines a set of strict requirements set by the payment 
card industry and is designed to ensure that organizations 
which process, store or transmit credit card data maintain 
a highly secure environment, and uphold the highest data 
security and privacy standards. Level 1 is the highest level 
of certification.
Crypto.com 12
We have completed a detailed security 
assessment, which included external 
penetration testing, threat modeling through 
to risk control reviews. In addition to our own 
extensive analysis, we have also engaged the 
Kudelski Blockchain Security Center to conduct a thorough external security 
test and full threat modeling exercise to ensure the completeness of their 
security controls.
We have also been rated “Adaptive (Tier 4)” – the highest level possible for 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity 
Framework and the latest NIST Privacy Framework, developed by the US 
Department of Commerce. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework, originally 
released in 2014, provides a framework of security guidance for how private 
sector organizations can develop, assess and improve their ability to identify, 
protect, detect, respond and recover from cyber attacks. 
 
All of users’ cryptocurrencies are held offline in cold storage. Crypto.com 
has secured a total of USD 360M in cold storage insurance against physical 
damage or destruction, and third-party theft.
For more information on our security & compliance standards, 
please visit our website.
 
Support of Fiat Institutions
In our journey to achieve the vision of Cryptocurrency in Every WalletTM, we 
are also actively enlisting the support of fiat institutions and helping them to 
include or involve cryptocurrency in their offerings in a compliant, secure & 
cost-effective manner.
For example, one of the first products we have launched is the Visa Card as 
an approved VISA program manager. Cardholders can conveniently spend & 
withdraw the fiat equivalent of their cryptocurrency online or offline at 50+ 
millions of VISA-approved merchants worldwide.
As another case in point, our native blockchain solution - Crypto.org Chain 
- not only caters to retail users who want to spend any crypto anywhere 
Crypto.com 13
for free, but also speaks to fiat institutions who face cryptocurrency-related 
challenges. For instance, Crypto.org Chain will help fiat institutions in areas 
such as:
  safe custody of cryptocurrencies;
  control of price volatilities of cryptocurrencies;
  timely and cost-efficient on-chain / off-chain settlement;
  management & support of multiple cryptocurrencies.
Crypto.com Solutions Overview
Below is an overview of the products we offer along three verticals:
  1. Payment - Crypto.com Pay, Visa Card
  2. Trading - Crypto.com App, Crypto.com Exchange
  3. Financial Services -  Decentralized Finance Products, Crypto Earn, 
Crypto Credit
Crypto.org Chain, our native blockchain solution, is the key tech that powers 
the payment pillar and will later support our trading and financial services 
products. In particular, the Crypto.org Chain blockchain protocol is the 
backbone behind Crypto.com Pay, our mobile payment solution.
Crypto.com Coin (CRO) - the native token of Chain - will power all of our 
products and offer rich token utility across different use cases (see section on 
Token Utility below). 
 
1 Payment 2 Trading 3 Financial Services
Crypto.com VISA Card Crypto.com Crypto.com De-Fi Crypto Crypto
Pay App Exchange Offerings Earn Credit
Powered by Powered by
Crypto.org Chain Crypto.org Chain
Powered by Crypto.com Coin (CRO) token
Since our founding, we have achieved the following milestones thanks to the 
support of our community:
Crypto.com 14
Overall Milestones
2016
June
Founded Crypto.com
2017
February
Accepted into Hong Kong 
Cyberport Incubation Program
2018
May
July Reached 100 mark for Crypto.com team size
Acquired the domain name Crypto.com
2019
April
September
Reached 200 mark for
Crypto.com team size Achieved the 1-million-user milestone
Achieved PCI:DSS 3.2.1 (Level 1) Certification
2020
January
Announced Crypto.com Private program
March
Reached 300 mark for Crypto.com team size
April Launched Crypto.com Private membership 
Published research in collaboration  program
with The Economist Intelligence Unit
May
Achieved the 2-million-user milestone
June
Achieved the ISO/IEC 27701:2019 
Certification (as the first cryptocurrency  July
company in the world to achieve this status)
Achieved the 3-million-user milestone
October
Achieved the 5-million-user milestone
Crypto.com 15
2021
March
Launched the Crypto.com NFT platform 
 
Launched Crypto.com Capital, a venture 
fund with US$200m to invest
Payment Milestones
2016
September
Secured VISA card issuing capacity
2017
October
Received greenlight for Visa 
Card in Singapore
2018
October
November
Started shipping Visa Card in Asia
Announced Crypto.org Chain 
and CRO token
2019
February 
Announced additional cashback  March
and new perks for Visa Card
Launched Crypto.com Pay 
checkout solution (powered by 
May Crypto.org Chain)
Launched Crypto.org Chain sample 
June
wallet on prototype testnet
Launched Crypto.com Pay gift 
July cards service
Announced first settlement agent an
stablecoin partners for Crypto.org Chain
Started shipping Visa Card in the US
Crypto.com 16
2019
August
September
Launched Crypto.com Pay
Launched Crypto.org Chain 
 “Pay Your Friends” function
 Thaler Alpha Testnet
Onboarded early-access validator  2020
partners for Crypto.org Chain
March
Revealed incentive mechanisms for
Crypto.org Chain Thaler Alpha Testnet
April
Started shipping Visa Card
Announced Ledger’s integration with 
in the UK
Crypto.com Pay checkout solution
May
Launched Crypto.com Pay Airtime Top-Up
Started shipping Visa Card in the EU
Received greenlight for Visa Card in Canada
Launched Visa Card White-Label Program
June
Launched Crypto.org Chain
October
Block Explorer v2.0
Launched Crypto.org Chain 
Croeseid Testnet
December
Started shipping Visa Card 
in Canada
Launched Crossfire,  2021
the Crypto.org Mainnet dry run
March
Launched Crypto.org Chain Mainnet 
 
Announced Global Alliance Partnership 
and Principal Membership with Visa
Trading Milestones Financial Services
2016
Milestones
October
Built the first prototype of
Crypto.com App
2017
August
Announced the go-live of
Crypto.com App
Crypto.com 17
2018
May
Launched the open beta program
for Crypto.com App
2019
May
November  Launched Crypto Earn
Launched Crypto.com  and Crypto Credit
Exchange beta version
December
Launched The Syndicate on 
Crypto.com Exchange
2020
May
June  Launched the Crypto.com 
Completed key Crypto.com  DeFi Wallet
Exchange infrastructure upgrades
September
Launched DeFi Swap
November 
Launched Margin Trading on the 
Crypto.com Exchange
2021
March
Launched Crypto.com Tax
Crypto.com 18
We are excited and ready to continue building & improving solutions for our 
users. Below is our product roadmap:
Crypto.com Ecosystem Roadmap
Trading Payments
Exchange Beta Goes Live  Visa Cards Ship APAC
Project Fundraising Platform
Visa Cards Ship EU
Goes Live
Exchange Margin Trading &
Visa Cards Ship in Canada
Lending Launch
Exchange Derivatives Chain Mainnet Goes Live
Go Live
OTC Trading Launch Visa Cards Ship in LATAM
Pay Integrates Directly with
Large Merchants
Finance
Pay Further Integrates with
Global Merchant Platforms
DeFi Wallet Goes Live
DeFi Swap Goes Live
Metaverse
Card Credit Power Goes Live 
NFT Platform Goes Live
De-Fi Borrowing and
Blockchain 
Lending Launch  GameFi Goes Live
Infrastructure
Cronos (the Crypto.org 
De-Fi Card Goes Live
EVM Chain) Mainnet Launches
Crypto.com 19
Crypto.com Solutions - Payment
                          (powered by Crypto.org Chain)
Value Proposition 
Crypto.com Pay is a mobile payment service that lets you pay in and/or 
receive cryptocurrency anywhere, anytime for free. This product is powered 
by Crypto.org Chain, our native blockchain solution (see section below for 
details).
Crypto.com Pay delivers the following value propositions:
  A.  Low fees. Merchants pay minimal fees for settlements in crypto or fiat, 
saving up to 80% on fees versus typical payment processors;
  B.  Low volatility & low risk offered by letting merchants accept 
cryptocurrency and get paid in their preferred crypto or fiat currency;
  C. Easy to set up, view and manage payments in a matter of minutes;
  D.  For developers. By developers. We’ve made it easy to start accepting 
cryptocurrencies with just a few lines of code.
Crypto.com Pay comes with a suite of offerings, which are introduced in 
details in the following pages:
  1. Pay Checkout
  2. Pay Gift Cards
  3. Pay Airtime Top-Up
  4. Pay Your Friends
User Experience
Pay Checkout  
Pay Checkout lets customers check out and pay in crypto and/ or merchants 
to receive crypto as an additional payment option. It delivers the following 
benefits for merchants and customers:
Crypto.com 20
Merchants  Customers
Reduced Transaction Costs (0.5% payout 
Ability to spend any cryptos
Cost fee and 0% transaction fee) Vs 1-3% fees
online for free
with other payment methods
Additional revenues 
Strong Incentives for purchase 
Traffic New set of high-value customers
10% cashback per day
Customer incentives to drive transactions
Easy integration withdocumentation guide
Smooth 2-tap mobile payment
Experience Merchant dashboard to track/reconcile
with Crypto.com App
transactions
Instant transaction settlement Instant payment conﬁrmation and debit
Settlement
in crypto Secure and compliant platform
/Compliance
Highly compliant way to receive crypto to pay with crypto
Pay Checkout is easy and intuitive to use for merchants and customers:
  1.  T  he customer pays in crypto by choosing “Crypto.com Pay” on the 
checkout page at the merchant’s.
  2. T  he customer is presented with a QR code and scans to pay - either 
with Crypto.com App or with a supported decentralized wallet.
  3. T  he customer’s account is debited.
     The merchant receives payment instantly in fiat currency or 
cryptocurrency of their choice in their business account with Crypto.com.
On one hand, the customer experience is 
designed to be effortless, and each payment 
can be completed with a few taps on their 
mobile phone. On the other hand, merchants 
can implement Crypto.com Pay with a few 
lines of code from our SDK and have flexibility 
in accepting both fiat and cryptocurrencies.
Our team is working to expand the list of merchants that integrate with 
Crypto.com Pay, with our selected partners below:
Crypto.com 21
Pay Gift Cards
With Pay Gift Cards, Crypto.com App users can shop at 
worldwide prominent brands with crypto and get cashback in 
CRO with each purchase.
We offer gift cards from brands in different categories including 
airlines, hotels, games, fashion, food and beverage, general retail, 
telecommunication, gas and diesel, entertainment, taxi services, 
and grocery. Users can find renowned brands such as  iTunes, 
Google Play, Amazon, Starbucks, Nike etc.1 with more brands 
around the world being added to the catalogue continuously.
Pay Airtime Top-Up
Pay Airtime is a feature that enables Crypto.com App users 
to pay for mobile airtime top-up via Crypto.com Pay in 
cryptocurrencies such as BTC, ETH, LTC and CRO.
With a few clicks in the Crypto.com App, users can top up 
airtime for mobile numbers offered by over 340 prepaid 
mobile network operators, including T-Mobile, Vodafone, 
Airtel, Orange, Verizon & others, in over 100 countries. Users 
also have options to top up their mobile phone or for the 
others, anytime and anywhere.
Pay Your Friends
Pay Your Friends allows users to pay back their friends in 
crypto and earn rewards by doing so. Users can pay their 
friends in any cryptocurrency for free. Alternatively, if a user 
pays friends back in CRO tokens, the sender will be rewarded 
with up to 10% cashback on this transaction.2
What we want to achieve with Pay Your Friends is to give our 
users a reason to bring all their friends into cryptocurrency. The 
user experience is instantaneous & free - the more users get a 
chance to experience it, the closer we get to global adoption.
________________________________________________________________ 
1 The availability of gift card brands varies by jurisdiction. Crypto.com does not have any direct partnership 
with the brands/merchants offered. 
2 Cashback limits apply
Crypto.com 22
Crypto.org Chain
Value Proposition 
Crypto.org Chain is the next-generation public 
blockchain that enables transactions worldwide 
between people and businesses. It is also the 
technology that powers Crypto.com Pay, our 
mobile payment solution (see section above), 
and will be used to revolutionize the world of 
payments, DeFi and NFT.
Crypto.org Chain has the following key value propositions:
  1. Secure: Fault-tolerant design making the Chain resilient and safe;
  2.  Instant & Low-Cost: Chain delivers Instant transaction confirmation 
coupled with minimal fees;
  3.  Permissionless: Chain is an open-sourced project that welcomes any 
party to join the network and/ or contribute to the code development.
Roles & Incentives
Different parties will be able to join & use Crypto.org Chain with different 
incentives:
Crypto.com 23
Participant Roles in the network Incentives
discounts: pay with crypto and receive 
generous cashback funded by the network
access (time): instant access to cryptocurrency
To make payments in
Customers access (distribution): ability to spend cryptocurrency
cryptocurrency
directly from their customer crypto-exchange
account / wallet at millions of merchants, both
online or offline, without moving to ﬁat
reduced costs: zero processing fees;
business growth: acquire high quality customers 
To receive payments in with substantial spending power;
Merchants
cryptocurrency marketing: offer customers network-funded
discounts and demonstrate abilityto move with a
new trend
Settlement To settle between different
revenue: earn fees for activities performed
Agents currencies
To validate and commit blocks
Validators
(containing transaction info) revenue: earn fees for activities performed
(Council Nodes)
to the chain
Technology
Crypto.org Chain Technology Overview
Please refer to the Crypto.org Chain Documentation for an overview on latest 
releases and features.
More tools & information for developers could be found on the 
Crypto.org Chain website.
Crypto.org Chain Croeseid Mainnet 
Crypto.org Chain Mainnet launched in March 2021, with Crypto.org Coin (CRO) 
as its native currency.
 
Users can stake CRO in Crypto.com DeFi Wallet to join delegated proof-of-
stake and earn yield accordingly.
Crypto.com 24
Crypto.org Chain Block Explorer
To better share network information, Crypto.org Chain Explorer 2.0 was unveiled 
together with a revamped Crypto.org Chain website. By allowing anyone to 
review the Croeseid Testnet on-chain activity, including node staking and 
governance, the new Crypto.org Chain Explorer marks an important milestone on 
our road to mainnet and supports our decentralized and permission-less vision 
for the network.
Tendermint as the Consensus Engine
 
We have decided to choose Tendermint - a byzantine fault tolerant (BFT) 
consensus protocol3 - as the consensus engine for Crypto.org Chain. We are 
also an active contributor to the Tendermint Rust-abci library.
The decision to use Tendermint was based on the following reasons among 
others:
  1.  Solid performance in testing
    a.  During our internal testing, we have obtained throughputs of 
transactions-per-second (TPS) reaching hundreds;
    b.  An earlier version of Tendermint was rigorously tested by Jepsen.io, 
which sets it apart from newly-proposed algorithms that are yet to 
be thoroughly tested;
  2. T rack record of adoption: Tendermint has been in continuous 
development since 2014, and has been adopted by several high-profile 
projects4;
  3. B  road use cases: Unlike some blockchain systems that are confined 
to consortium networks, Tendermint caters to both permissioned and 
public network;
  4. F  lexibility: Tendermint has a fairly modular architecture, and offers 
flexibility on which and how applications are developed on top of it.
3 See the Cosmos Whitepaper for details
Crypto.com 25
Network Decentralization
Crypto.org Chain is being built with complete decentralization in mind - Chain 
is a permissionless network, meaning that anyone can participate in the 
network if they wish to do so. Crypto.org Chain is open-source on Github with 
documentation here.
In the long-term, Crypto.org Chain will be able to run without CRO Protocol 
Labs entities as we develop the key pieces of architecture and technology to 
enable it:
  Trust-less mechanisms to increase access to transaction validation nodes,
  Built-in and proven security protocols to keep bad actors at bay,
   Balanced incentives for valued added contributors and disincentives for 
free-riders,
   Upgradability and flexibility of the chain through community code 
contributions.
4 See List of projects in Cosmos & Tendermint Ecosystem
Crypto.com 26
Crypto.com Fiat
Cost Free 2 - 3%
Settlement Instant CeTn t+r a2l i-z>e d7 vs Decentralized vs Distributed Network: An Overview
Centralized vs Decentralized vs Distributed Network: An Overview
Network
Decentralized Network Centralized Network
No single authority server  All the nodes are 
controls the nodes, they all  connected under a 
have individual entity single authority
Network Potential
Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies are relatively new concepts. Since 
Bitcoin’s initial release in 2009, the awareness and acceptance of blockchain 
& cryptocurrencies have been steadily on the rise. We are pleased to see 
that crypto has received the interest and support of established institutions, 
with recent news such as Facebook’s launch of its Libra project and Paypal’s 
confirmation that it is developing cryptocurrency capabilities. We believe 
that such favorable developments in the industry will continue to increase the 
recognition of cryptocurrencies and fuel the growth of the industry.
On a related note, the accelerated experimentation of Central Bank Digital 
Currencies (CBDCs) by governments around the world indicate a strong 
interest in digital currencies as a whole. Our research & insights team have 
supported The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in a white paper titled 
Digimentality —Fear and Favouring of Digital Currency, which outlines the 
findings from our research on consumer attitudes towards digital currencies. 
We have observed that 85% of survey respondents have owned, used or 
heard of decentralized digital currency (such as a cryptocurrency), indicating 
increased public awareness.
Crypto.com 27
Another indicator on the potential of cryptocurrencies is the exponential 
growth in the number of wallets. Bitcoin and Ethereum wallet creation have 
experienced explosive growth (>10x) respectively from 2013 to 2015 and 2016 
to 2018. We expect wallet creation growth to continue in the future but with 
a significantly more moderate CAGR down to 30-40% in the later years. Our 
research & insights team have used on-chain data to reach the estimate that 
the Bitcoin & Ethereum wallet addresses map to around 66 million crypto 
owners worldwide in 2020 (see this report for details on methodology), which 
is a sizable user-base considering both networks are around or less than a 
decade old at the time of the estimate.
Historical growth of Bitcoin and Ethereum Wallet
Bitcoin Wallet Address Growth
60,000,000
40,000,000
20,000,000
0
1/1/2012 1/1/2014 1/1/2016 1/1/2018 1/1/2020
# of addressess on the Bitcoin network
Ethereum Wallet Address Growth
100,000,000
75,000,000
50,000,000
25,000,000
0
1/1/2016 1/1/2017 1/1/2018 1/1/2019 1/1/2020
# of addressess on the Ethereum network
Leveraging the Bitcoin/Ethereum wallet creation growth forecast, and 
discounting users with multiple wallets as well as overlap between each 
blockchain wallets, we expect crypto users to grow to 250 to 400 millions by 
20225.
____________________________________________________________
5 Based on historical growth of Bitcoin and Ethereum wallets (2:1 ratio in contribution) and decreasing 
expected future growth down to 35% in the last year
Crypto.com 28
Total Digital Payments segment expected to be $5+ trillion USD by 2022, 
amongst which crypto payments could represent 2-3%7 of total payment 
volume ($100-150 billion USD).
Total Transaction Value in the "Digital Payments" Segment7
6,000,000
5,411,354
4,920,468
4,381,401
D
S 4,000,000 3,818,909
U
n  3,265,209
o 2,753,714
milli 2,311,407
n  2,000,000
i
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Source: Statista Digital Commerce Mobile POS Payments
_____________________________________________________________
5 Based on historical growth of Bitcoin and Ethereum wallets (2:1 ratio in contribution) and decreasing 
expected future growth down to 35% in the last year
6 The Digital Payments market segment is led by consumer transactions and includes payments for products 
and services which are made over the Internet as well as mobile payments at point-of-sale (POS) via 
smartphone applications. 
7 Similar to the payment market penetration of the first mobile payment player entrant in a large market 
after 4-5 years
Crypto.com 29
Visa Card
Value Proposition
Customers typically face the following pain points when trying to buy & spend 
with cryptocurrencies:
  1.  Lack of places to transact with crypto;
  2. Having to endure long lead times (3-4 days) for processing;
  3. B  eing charged significant FX fees (up to 5% of purchase amount) by 
financial institutions when spending abroad with regular fiat debit or 
credit cards.
The Visa Card addresses these pain points by allowing cardholders to:
  A.  Transact without annual fees at 60+ millions VISA merchant locations 
worldwide;
  B. Enjoy instant top-up and payment completion without waiting time;
  C. Spend overseas at interbank exchange rates without markups;
  D. Benefit from amazing perks associated with the card.
User Experience
The Visa Card offers benefits that challenge the world’s best credit cards. 
Users can apply for different tiers of VISA cards that offer different perks:
Crypto.com 30
Card Beneﬁts
CRO Cashback** Card Limits
(while staking***)
Crypto.com Private
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix, Spotify, and 
Obsidian
Amazon Primememberships# $1,000 USD / month free ATM 
8% Cashback 10% reimbursement of Airbnb and withdrawals
Reduces to 2% unless staking  Expedia expenses# Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed. Airport lounge access + 1 guest transactions
Earn Bonus Interest
Exclusive Merchandise Welcome Pack
Private Jet Partnership
Icy White
Frosted Rose Gold Crypto.com Private
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix, Spotify, and  $1,000 USD / month free ATM 
5% Cashback Amazon Prime memberships# withdrawals
Reduces to 1.75% unless staking  10% reimbursement of Expedia expenses# Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed. Airport lounge access + 1 guest transactions
Earn Bonus Interest
Exclusive Merchandise Welcome Pack
Jade Green
Royal Indigo
3% Cashback $800 USD / month free ATM 
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix and
withdrawals
Reduces to 1.5% unless staking  Spotify memberships# Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed. Airport lounge access
transactions
Ruby Steel
2% Cashback $400 USD / month free ATM 
100% reimbursement of Spotify withdrawals
Reduces to 1% unless staking  membership# Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed.
transactions
Midnight Blue
$200 USD / month free ATM 
1% Cashback - withdrawals
Unlimited foreign currency 
transactions
From 19 March 2021 09:00:00 UTC, CRO Staking Requirements for the Crypto.
com Visa Card is expressed in local fiat currencies instead of fixed amounts of 
CRO Equivalent
CRO. The staking requirements are per the table below:
Card Tier USD EUR GBP SGD BRL AUD
Midnight Blue $0 €0 £0 $0 R$0 $0
Ruby Steel $400 €350 £300 $500 R$2,500 $500
Jade Green /  $4,000 €3,500 £3,000 $5,000 R$25,000 $5,000
Royal Indigo
Frosted Rose Gold / $40,000 €35,000 £30,000 $50,000 R$250,000 $50,000
 Icy White
Obsidian $400,000 €350,000 £300,000 $500,000 R$2,500,000 $500,000
Notes:
* “Stake” or “Staking” means the holding of CRO in your Crypto.com App for 6 months;
** CRO Cashback is paid in CRO token to your wallet in the Crypto.com App. Transactions on digital wallets, digital banking services, crypto
exchanges, stored value products, money remittance services are excluded from the CRO rewards program;
*** Once a user unstakes CRO, the beneﬁts of each tier will be reduced (except for Airport lounge access). To keep enjoying all these rewards
and beneﬁts, users can keep CRO staking beyond the initial 6-month staking period.
# This offer is launched by Crypto.com independently and there is no partnership between Crypto.com and the merchants in this offer.
Crypto.com has the sole discretion to modify this offer at any time. Maximum reimbursements per month:
- Spotify: USD 12.99 equiv. - Netﬂix: USD 13.99 equiv. (standard monthly subscription - HD, 2 screens) . - Expedia: USD 50 equiv.
- Amazon Prime: USD 12.99 equiv. - Airbnb: USD 100 equiv.
Card Beneﬁts
CRO Cashback** Card Limits
(while staking***)
Crypto.com Private
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix, Spotify, and 
Obsidian
Amazon Primememberships# $1,000 USD / month free ATM 
8% Cashback 10% reimbursement of Airbnb and withdrawals
Reduces to 2% unless staking  Expedia expenses# Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed. Airport lounge access + 1 guest transactions
Earn Bonus Interest
Exclusive Merchandise Welcome Pack
Private Jet Partnership
Icy White
Frosted Rose Gold Crypto.com Private
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix, Spotify, and  $1,000 USD / month free ATM 
5% Cashback Amazon Prime memberships# withdrawals
10% reimbursement of Expedia expenses# Unlimited foreign currency 
Reduces to 1.75% unless staking 
is renewed. Airport lounge access + 1 guest transactions
Earn Bonus Interest
Exclusive Merchandise Welcome Pack
Jade Green
Royal Indigo
3% Cashback $800 USD / month free ATM 
100% reimbursement of Netﬂix and
withdrawals
Reduces to 1.5% unless staking  Spotify memberships#
Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed. Airport lounge access
transactions
Ruby Steel
2% Cashback $400 USD / month free ATM 
100% reimbursement of Spotify
withdrawals
Reduces to 1% unless staking  membership#
Unlimited foreign currency 
is renewed.
transactions
Midnight Blue
$200 USD / month free ATM 
1% Cashback - withdrawals
Unlimited foreign currency 
transactions
Crypto.com 31
CRO Equivalent
Card Tier USD EUR GBP SGD BRL AUD
Midnight Blue $0 €0 £0 $0 R$0 $0
Ruby Steel $400 €350 £300 $500 R$2,500 $500
Jade Green /  $4,000 €3,500 £3,000 $5,000 R$25,000 $5,000
Royal Indigo
Frosted Rose Gold / $40,000 €35,000 £30,000 $50,000 R$250,000 $50,000
 Icy White
Obsidian $400,000 €350,000 £300,000 $500,000 R$2,500,000 $500,000
Notes:
* “Stake” or “Staking” means the holding of CRO in your Crypto.com App for 6 months;
** CRO Cashback is paid in CRO token to your wallet in the Crypto.com App. Transactions on digital wallets, digital banking services, crypto
exchanges, stored value products, money remittance services are excluded from the CRO rewards program;
*** Once a user unstakes CRO, the beneﬁts of each tier will be reduced (except for Airport lounge access). To keep enjoying all these rewards
and beneﬁts, users can keep CRO staking beyond the initial 6-month staking period.
# This offer is launched by Crypto.com independently and there is no partnership between Crypto.com and the merchants in this offer.
Crypto.com has the sole discretion to modify this offer at any time. Maximum reimbursements per month:
- Spotify: USD 12.99 equiv. - Netﬂix: USD 13.99 equiv. (standard monthly subscription - HD, 2 screens) . - Expedia: USD 50 equiv.
- Amazon Prime: USD 12.99 equiv. - Airbnb: USD 100 equiv.
The Visa Card could be managed via the Crypto.com App (see section below 
for details). In the app, users could complete card application, view card 
details, track card spending records, receive eligible card rewards etc.,
Crypto.com 32
Crypto.com Solutions - Trading
Crypto.com App
Value Proposition
Crypto.com App delivers the following value propositions:
  A.  One-stop shop to buy, sell, store, send & track track cryptocurrency in 
a secure and convenient way with a few taps on their mobile phones;
  B.  The only place to buy crypto at true cost - Crypto.com’s proprietary 
Vortex Trading Engine pools liquidity from major exchanges globally 
and routes orders to them to ensure the Best Execution Price. Coupled 
with our increasing coverage of fiat top-up channels and convenient 
app interface, this makes Crypto.com App the best place to buy crypto.
   Special promotion: The 3.5% credit/ debit card fee will be waived for 
cryptocurrency purchases for all users until the end of September.
Crypto.com 33
User Experience
 
Buy & Sell Crypto
Users can buy crypto with their fiat wallets and/ or with a credit or debit card.
The Crypto.com App supports 7 fiat and 55 cryptocurrencies.
Send Crypto
Users can send crypto to Crypto.com App users instantly without fees, or 
withdraw crypto to external wallet addresses with minimal fixed fees.
Track Crypto
Users can monitor 200+ coins at their fingertips in the coin tracking tab. 
Metrics available include prices, volume, market cap, % change and more that 
are refreshed frequently and up-to-date. The app also presents charts in dual 
currencies (USD, BTC) and different time frames (8H, 1D, 1W, 3M, 6M).
Manage the Visa Card
The Crypto.com App enables users to apply for and manage their Visa Card 
and enable spending of their cryptocurrency in the online and offline world 
at more than 40 million VISA merchants worldwide. Supported app functions 
include:
   Convert cryptocurrency into fiat ready for spending (including USD, EUR, 
GBP, SGD, HKD, JPY, AUD)
  Enable card withdrawal, freeze/ unfreeze card
  Upgrade card tier etc.
Crypto.com 34
Crypto.com Exchange
Value Proposition
Crypto.com Exchange lets users trade crypto at ease with the following value 
propositions:
  A. Deep liquidity with access to the best execution prices;
  B.  Competitive fees offered with high volume accounts trading for free 
(after CRO staking discount);
  C.  Engaging events provided such as discounted token distributions 
(Syndicate) and trading activity-driven competitions (Trading Arena);
  D.  Institutional-grade infrastructure that powers high-availability, fully-
resilient and horizontally-scalable components.
Crypto.com Exchange debuted with the spot trading functionality, with more 
features & promotions being added to the platform to deliver a suite of 
trading-related services for retail & corporate users alike.
Furthermore, Crypto.com Exchange helps to facilitate CRO liquidity with CRO 
trading pairs and CRO-related activities (see section below for details).
Crypto.com 35
User Experience
 
Spot Trading
Crypto.com’s proprietary Vortex Liquidity Engine ensures that customers have 
access to deep liquidity pools and best execution prices on the Crypto.com 
Exchange. Retail & corporate users can trade on the exchange via the desktop 
interface or via the exchange API.
Crypto.com Exchange supports trading pairs for cryptocurrencies with leading 
market capitalization and volume such as BTC, ETH, LTC, USDC and more, 
as well as CRO token - the native currency of Crypto.org Chain (see section 
below for more details on the CRO token).
The fees on the exchange are based on trading volume and CRO staking. The 
higher the volume and/ or the higher the amount of CRO staked, the lower the 
trading fees. In addition, users enjoy trading fee discounts if they pay the fees 
in CRO. Please refer to this webpage for our detailed fees & limits schedule. 
 
Margin Trading
Margin trading on the Crypto.com Exchange allows you to borrow 
cryptocurrencies on Crypto.com Exchange to trade on the spot market. 
Eligible users can use the margin loan as leverage to open a position that is 
larger than the balance of your account. 
Derivatives Trading
The first derivatives product offered on Crypto.com Exchange is perpetuals. 
Perpetuals enable traders to buy or sell the value of their ‘assets’, whereby the 
underlying asset itself is never traded—allowing them to better manage risk. 
Perpetuals do not expire or have a settlement date, and users can hold their 
positions for as long as needed.
 
Crypto.com Lending
Crypto.com Lending allows you to borrow against your cryptocurrencies 
without selling them. You can deposit them as collateral and take out crypto 
loans to fulfill your financial needs, use for Margin Trading on the Crypto.com 
Exchange, or hedge on other exchange platforms.
Crypto.com 36
If you are an institutional user and require more flexible loan terms, you can 
apply for Lending Pro on Crypto.com Lending. Once your application has 
been approved, you can enjoy a higher borrowing limit and apply for loans 
with customised terms when they are available.
Syndicate
The Syndicate is a discounted token offering platform on Crypto.com 
Exchange, powered by the CRO token.
The Syndicate helps projects raise awareness and drive user education. The 
listing project can provide an allocation of their own token for distribution on 
the Crypto.com Exchange users with up to a 50% discount. All proceeds from 
the sale are passed back to the projects. CRO holders receives priority token 
allocation for these events.
Staking Benefits
Crypto.com Exchange can enjoy benefits provided by two types of staking 
services:
  1.  CRO stake-and-earn:
     Users can stake CRO for 180 days on the Exchange and earn up to 10% 
in interest annually.
  2. Soft-staking for idle balance:
     Crypto.com Soft Staking offers users a new way to earn rewards up 
to 5% in interest annually on cryptocurrencies held in the Exchange. 
Rewards are offered on a flexible term -  no “lock-up” is required. The 
soft-staking maximum limit varies depending on the currency, and users 
with more CRO staked on the Exchange are eligible for higher limits.
Other Features & Promotions
Crypto.com Exchange will continuously expand its product offerings for retail 
& institutional users.
In addition, Crypto.com Exchange offers a stream of new-user promotional 
campaigns. Promotions we have launched include 2% additional deposit bonus 
(for first 30 days), 0% trading fees (for first 90 days) etc.
Crypto.com 37
Crypto.com Solutions - Financial 
Services
 
Decentralized Financial Services
 
Crypto.com DeFi Wallet
 
Value Proposition
To take one more step towards letting users better safeguard their money, 
data and identity, we have launched the Crypto.com DeFi Wallet, which is 
a non-custodial wallet app that allows users to gain full ownership of their 
private keys.
Crypto.com DeFi Wallet offers the following value propositions:
  A.  Decentralized product giving users full control of private keys (and 
crypto) are placed in the hands of users;s
  B.  Secure wallet protected by the encryption of private keys on the 
user’s device, combined with passcode, biometrics and 2-factor 
authentication;
  C.  Flexible transactions with customizable confirmation speed and 
network fees;
  D.  Convenient connection to the Crypto.com App to easily access the 
diverse crypto financial services offered by Crypto.com.
Crypto.com 38
Note: Crypto.com DeFi Wallet (non-custodial) and Crypto.com App (custodial 
- see section above) are two mobile applications that target different use 
cases.
Crypto.com Wallet Crypto.com App
(Non-custodial Wallet) (Custodial Wallet)
If crypto transfers are made within
You have 100% control over your 
Crypto.com ecosystem, you will not be
crypto and your private keys
charged any fees
Advantages
We do not require you to prove  No major effect if you lose your private
your identity so risk of data branch keys or  recovery phrase, easy to regrain
is lower access again via our support team
You need to pay transaction fee
You need to prove your identity and
as the  transactions are on-chain
perform KYC (know your customer,
and you have to wait for the
ID veriﬁcation)
transaction to be conﬁrmed
Disadvantages
If you lose your recovery phrase,
Your wallet is not fully decentralized as
you will not be able to access your
Crypto.com is the wallet custodian
wallet and crypto
User Experience
Crypto.com De-Fi Wallet is designed for all level of crypto users - beginners 
will feel at ease as they are gently guided towards making their first 
transaction, while experienced users will notice significant improvements 
to common features found on other crypto wallets (in particular, backup 
recovery phrase and sending/receiving crypto). The wallet supports BTC, ETH, 
CRO, LTC, XLM, CRV, and TRU, with more tokens to be progressively added. 
Users can have more than one wallet and change their wallet networks from 
Mainnet to Ethereum Testnets in the Crypto.com DeFi Wallet App.
To get started, users could download the Crypto.com De-Fi Wallet mobile app 
and follow these simple steps:
  1.  Select a wallet creation method:
    a. Create a new wallet
Crypto.com 39
    b.  Import an existing wallet (for users 
who already have an existing wallet 
created on other applications, they 
can easily import such wallets with 
a 12/18/24-word recovery phrase)
    c.  Connect to Crypto.com App (for 
existing Crypto.com App users)
  2. A  ccept our Legal Terms & Conditions 
and Privacy Notice
  3. S  et up a passcode and enable biometrics authentication and 2FA
  4. Back up the recovery phase 
Crypto.com DeFi Swap
DeFi Swap is designed to be the best place to swap and farm DeFi coins at 
the best available rate, leveraging proven and audited protocols, while offering 
an outstanding incentive program powered by CRO.
Liquidity Providers (LPs) are generously incentivized for contributing to 
liquidity pools with Triple Yield through:
  Swap-fee Sharing for LPs;
  CRO DeFi Yield for LPs who also stake CRO;
  Bonus LP Yield for LPs of selected pools.
DeFi Swap follows a constant product formula, where the product of 
the quantities of two tokens remain the same before and after a swap is 
performed. The price slippage depends on the ratio and quantity of tokens in 
the pool.
The DeFi Swap is a decentralized protocol deployed on the Ethereum 
blockchain. Each transaction record such as on-chain deposits and 
withdrawals are transparent on the network. The role of Crypto.com is as a 
provider of technology by contributing to the development of the product. 
Crypto.com is open-sourcing the core codebase and welcomes the input and 
decentralized contributions from the community. 
DeFi swap is integrated with the DeFi wallet allowing users to exchange 
tokens directly in the DeFi Wallet app.
Crypto.com 40
For more information about the DeFi Swap, please consult the DeFi Swap 
whitepaper, and the DeFi Swap FAQ. Users can provide liquidity and / or swap 
tokens via interacting directly with the DeFi Swap Web App.
Other Decentralized Offerings
Other than the products mentioned above, we have also launched DeFi Earn 
that allows users to generate yield on their tokens and DeFi dashboard with 
estimated gas costs.
In addition, we have a suite of decentralized products planned in our product 
roadmap (see section above), including but are not limited to: decentralized 
borrowing / lending services, decentralized card offerings etc. Some of 
our offerings will be powered by Crypto.org Chain, a decentralized public 
blockchain.
On a related note, our in-house Research & Insights team are publishing 
articles & reports on decentralized finance (e.g., De-Fi landscape overview, 
project deep-dives), which can be viewed online at this webpage. We are 
continuously publishing more reports to the webpage which can be read by 
anyone for free. Other than the free reports, Crypto.com Private members get 
exclusive access to our proprietary monthly feature articles (see section on 
Crypto.com Private for more details). 
Crypto.com 41
Crypto Earn (part of the Crypto.com App)
Value Proposition
Crypto Earn is a product that lets users who want to capitalize on their holdings 
while retaining ownership. Crypto Earn gives users the freedom to grow their 
crypto assets and earn up to double-digit interest rates annually on different 
cryptocurrencies. 
User Experience
Crypto Earn is offered within the Crypto.com App.
Users can deposit cryptocurrencies and earn interest. Supported deposit tokens 
are shown in the picture below and more assets will be added regularly.8
Selected Tokens in Crypto Earn
There are three holding term options for users to choose at the time of deposit:
  Flexible holding term
  1-month fixed term
  3-month fixed term
Once the deposit is confirmed, interest will start to accrue immediately. Please 
check the Crypto.com App for the latest rates. Users with CRO staked will 
receive preferential interest rates.
________________________________________________________________ 
8 Token availability varies by jurisdiction
Crypto.com 42
Crypto Credit (part of the Crypto.com App)
Value Proposition
Crypto Credit gives users spending power by enabling them to monetize their 
crypto assets without the need to sell it:
  A.  Get the credit limit you want, not what you’re given.
  B.  Instant credit deposited in your crypto wallet and is ready to spend.
  C.  Pay whenever you want with no statement deadlines.
  D.  No credit check required.
User Experience
Crypto Credit is offered within the Crypto.com App.
Users can deposit cryptocurrencies as collateral to borrow a crypto loan. 
Supported collateral currencies include BTC, ETH, CRO, LTC, XLM, EOS, 
ADA, ALGO, ATOM, VET, LINK, and WBTC, with more currencies to be added 
progressively.
Selected Collateral Tokens
Selected Loan Tokens
After depositing the required collateral, the user will receive the loan instantly 
in their crypto wallet in the Crypto.com App. Supported loan currencies 
include USDT, TUSD, USDC, PAX
Users with CRO staked will receive preferential loan interest rates. Please 
check the Crypto.com App for the latest rate information. 
Crypto.com 43
Crypto.com Solutions - 
Other Services & Benefits
Crypto.com NFT
Value Proposition
Crypto.com NFT is a platform dedicated to delivering unique content from 
popular artists, musicians, athletes, and sports:
      Curated roster of mainstream and digital artists including: Aston Martin     
     Cognizant Formula OneTM, Axel Mansoor (the King Of The Clubhouse),  
     Bag Raiders, BossLogic, Boy George, Jonathan Monaghan with Nathan  
     Evans (of #1 single Sea Shanty ‘Wellerman’ fame), KCamp, Klarens Malluta  
     with Lionel Richie, KLOUD, Mr. Brainwash, OPUS, Snoop Dogg, 
     among others;
     User-friendly NFT buying experience, allowing users to buy NFTs using   
     their credit or debit card;
     Integration with Crypto.com Pay, offering users the ability to pay with over  
     20 cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Dogecoin.
User Experience
At launch, users will have the option to 1-click buy using their credit or debit 
card or with cryptocurrency via Crypto.com Pay. 
Collectors or fans will be able to acquire and trade (resell) NFTs through 
the platform.
Crypto.com Tax
Value Proposition
With its intuitive interface and country-specific tax calculation formulas, 
Crypto.com Tax makes it easy to file complicated crypto taxes:
     Full integration with popular exchanges & wallets and easy-to-use interface    
     that gets the job done in no time; 
     Entirely free services. No matter how many transactions you have in the     
     past years, we’ll handle the calculation for you at no cost, making us the    
Crypto.com 44
     first free crypto tax product on the market; 
     Simple and intuitive interface, aiming to create the best user experience     
     when dealing with tax matters. All results are transparent for review prior  
     to getting your final results generated.
User Experience
Users can import crypto transaction records from supported exchanges 
and wallets by uploading a CSV file, or using API synchronisation with major 
platforms like the Crypto.com App. 
In a matter of minutes, Crypto.com Tax is able to provide users with an 
estimation of taxable gains/losses on relevant crypto transactions, which can 
then be downloaded for tax filing.
Crypto.com Private
Crypto.com Private is a package of premium rewards and benefits tailored for 
our Obsidian, Rose Gold and Icy White VISA cardholders. This builds on our 
existing benefits for these cardholders which include up to 8% cashback on all 
spending,  unlimited LoungeKey™ Airport Lounge Access with a guest, Airbnb 
and Expedia rebates among other benefits (see section above on Visa Card 
for detailed description on the card product).
Benefits for All Private Members
All Crypto.com Private Members will have access to a set of crypto-related 
services:
  OTC block trades of CRO
  Priority access to research reports published by Crypto.com
Crypto.com 45
   Inheritance service i.e., assistance with estate handling related to Crypto.
com assets
   Top industry events access (with priority access for Obsidian cardholders)
  Priority customer service
VISA Card-Related Benefits
Icy White, Rose Gold and Obsidian cardholders will now enjoy:
   Crypto Earn additional interest of 2% annually on fixed-term deposits 
(paid in CRO; not applicable to CRO deposits);
   Crypto Earn increased account limits of USD $2m for Obsidian and 
USD$1m for Icy White/Frosted Rose Gold; US$0.5m for the remaining 
card tiers;
  Amazon Prime rebate of up to US$12.99/month in membership fees;
  Welcome Pack with exclusive Crypto.com branded merchandise.
In addition, Obsidian cardholders will exclusively enjoy the private jet service 
(special perks when travelling with our preferred private jet partner).
Referral Program
 
Crypto.com App Referral Program
Our referral program provides some of the richest rewards ever seen in the 
industry. Both referrers and their referred 
Refer & Get $25 USD
friends receive a $25 USD bonus (in CRO) 
with each successful sign-up and CRO-
staking for any metal VISA card on the 
Crypto.com App.
All eligible Crypto.com App users can 
participate in the referral program, with no 
limits on the number of referrals. Bonuses 
of the referral program are credited instantly - your referred friends can use 
their sign-up bonus immediately after they make a valid transaction.
Crypto.com Exchange Referral Program
The Crypto.com Exchange referral program offers rewards to both eligible new 
referred users and the referrers. New users that pass verification and stake a 
certain amount of CRO are eligible to receive up to USD$25 equivalent in CRO. 
Eligible referrers can receive even greater rewards in CRO.
Crypto.com 46
Research & Insights
We have an in-house Research & Insights team dedicated to publishing 
articles, reports and research with the aims to educate more people about the 
crypto space and establish thought leadership with insightful analysis. The 
offerings of our research team include:
   Crypto.com University (link here) - educational materials about 
blockchain and cryptocurrencies, suitable for people who are new to the 
industry and/ or are looking to level up their knowledge;
   Crypto.com Research Hub (link here) - free, online repertoire where we 
share our independent views on diverse topic suitable for audiences of 
different levels of knowledge and/ or interest. We offer a wide range 
of materials that cater to industry veterans, trading enthusiasts or new 
joiners alike;
   Crypto.com Private Feature Articles - Crypto.com Private members get 
privileged access to our monthly feature articles, along with other exclusive 
benefits (see the section on Crypto.com Private for more details).
Our research team conducts in-house research, as well as collaborates 
with research partners on certain topics. For example, we supported The 
Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) on a piece of research to dig deeper into 
the general public’s behaviors and opinions around digital payments - such 
as drivers, barriers and trust factors - and the evolution of a cashless future. 
A new interactive digital currency hub is now being hosted on The Economist 
(https://digitalcurrency.economist.com/) alongside a white paper titled 
Digimentality —Fear and Favouring of Digital Currency, which outlines the 
findings from our research on consumer attitudes towards digital currencies.
Crypto.com 47
Formula One Partnership
In March 2021, Crypto.com announced a multi-year partnership with Aston 
Martin Cognizant Formula One Team™ to bring exclusive experiences and 
opportunities to traders and F1 fans. The partnership brings together two 
dynamic brands which share a passion for technology and speed, and 
places Aston Martin Cognizant Formula One Team™ at the forefront of 
cryptocurrency innovation.
Crypto.com is the first cryptocurrency platform to be sponsoring an F1 team
Visa Principal Membership
In March 2021, Crypto.com announced a global partnership with Visa that also 
includes principal membership in Visa’s network in Australia. The partnership 
will advance Crypto.com’s ambition to accelerate the adoption of crypto 
payment solutions around the world by expanding the reach of the  
Crypto.com Visa Card. In addition, Crypto.com is announcing plans to roll out 
fiat lending with crypto collateral via the Crypto.com Visa Card. 
 
Having been granted Visa principal membership, Crypto.com will begin 
direct-issuance of the Crypto.com Visa Card in Australia, allowing Crypto.com 
to have a direct relationship with cardholders. Crypto.com has also started 
offering virtual cards in Europe, allowing users to instantly start spending 
without waiting for the physical card to be in-hand.
Crypto.com 48
CRO Token
 
Token Creation and Basic Information 
Token name Crypto.org Coin
Token ticker CRO
Issuing entity CRO Protocol Labs
Token total supply 30,000,000,000 CRO
Secondary distribution only.
Distribution mechanisms No pre-sale, no public sale, and no ICO
100% circulating supply, 100% decentralized
Focused on revolutionizing payments, DeFi and NFTs
(See section below for details on distribution & planned use)
Token ERC20 contract and daily distribution smart contract
Audit & assessment were successfully audited by Quantstamp and Certik
Crypto.com 49
Token Distribution and Planned Use
In February 2021, Crypto.com announced updates to the CRO token 
distribution, with the goal of 100% decentralization in preparation for Crypto.
org Mainnet launch.
Crypto.com has pledged to burn 70 billion CRO (reducing the total supply of 
the token to 30 billion CRO), with the remaining 5.9 billion CRO to be used 
as Mainnet block rewards for Chain validators and allocation to Particle B for 
ecosystem development.
Current
Wallets Burn & Allocation
Token
Holding
Capital Reserve
0x22e4f709fd5e7fe246fbf7e 20 bn 100% Burned (20 bn)
714ae89bdab7e2a5d
Community Development
0x67703f7d089f3ac7c8c13a1 5.5 bn 100% Burned (5.5 bn)
8b2381cbd7ee3eded
Secondary Distribution &
100% Burned (10.4 bn)
Launch Incentives
10.4 bn (as it gets minted by the
0x20a0bee429d6907e55620
smart contract)
5ef9d48ab6fe6a55531
Ecosystem Grants 96% Burned (19.1 bn)
0xdda508f9f3c1b4ca39c879 20 bn 4% Allocated to Particle B
4df3a080298ebe9c55
(0.9 bn)
Network Long-Term Incentives 75% Burned (15 bn)
0x71507ee19cbc0c87ff2b5e05 20 bn 25% Allocated to Chain
d161efe2aac4ee07
Block rewards (0.9 bn)
Crypto.com 50
Token Utility
The Crypto.com Coin (CRO) token is the native token of Crypto.org Chain - 
our next-generation public blockchain solution. CRO also powers the overall 
Crypto.com ecosystem, with utility across payment, trading and financial 
services use cases:
Crypto.com Coin (CRO) Utility
Payments Trading
Crypto.com Pay &
Crypto.com App
Crypto.org Chain
Receive token rewards for 
Earn up to 20% cashback 
selected token listings on the 
paying merchants online and 
offline Finance CTorykepnto s.ctaokme dA ipnp a bpapsed on CRO 
Earn up to 10% cashback on 
Receive higher staking rewards 
major brands gift-cards and 
for selected tokens based CRO 
p2p transfers to friends
Token staked in app
Stake CRO as Validator on the 
Crypto.org Chain and earn fees 
on the network
Crypto.com DeFi Wallet
Use CRO to settle transaction 
fees on the Crypto.org Chain Unlock DeFi features in 
non-custodial wallet app
Crypto.com Exchange
Get better staking rewards 
with CRO tokens staked Stake CRO and earn up to 10% 
p.a. on Crypto.com Exchange
Crypto.com Earn
Get discounted trading fees 
Get better interest rate 
when staking & paying with 
with CRO tokens staked of 
CRO on Crypto.com Exchange
Visa Card up to 12% p.a.
Earn an additional 2% p.a. on 
Reserve a metal Visa Card
ﬁxed term deposits (paid in 
CRO) with staking equivalent 
Receive up to 8% back with each 
to Icy White / Rose Gold or 
transact on the Visa Card Get priority discounted 
Obsidian Visa card tiers
token allocation when new 
Receive 10% p.a. on your staked  Crypto.com Credit coins list via The Syndicate 
CRO for Jade Green / Royal  fundraising platform
Indigo tier and 12% p.a. on your  Lower annual interest rate 
staked CRO for Icy White / Rose  (APR) at 8% Stake CRO to enjoy 
Gold and Obsidian tiers preferential interest rates in 
Crypto.com DeFi Swap Crypto.com Soft Staking on 
Exclusive Crypto.com Private  Receive & boost bonus  Crypto.com Exchange
rewards and beneﬁts for  yield for providing liquidity 
cardholders of Icy White / Rose  with CRO tokens staked
Gold and Obsidian cards while 
they have CRO staked for
their cards
Crypto.com 51
Ecosystem
Exchanges
23 exchanges including:
Wallets
Wallets supporting include:
Staking & Validators
6 partners including:
Technology
2 partners including:
Settlement & Stablecoin
3 partners including:
Crypto.com 52
Crypto.com Team & Organization
 
Management Profile 
Crypto.com was founded and is being led by a team of seasoned management  
with a proven track record and rich experience:
Co-Founders
Kris Marszalek | Co-Founder & CEO
Seasoned company builder passionate about working with great teams on 
consumer products. Before starting Crypto.com in 2016, Kris was three-
times founder in tech space (e-commerce, mobile LBS app, consumer 
electronics): CEO at Ensogo, Founder at BEECRAZY (sold for $21 million 
USD to iBuy Group in 2013).
Rafael Melo, CPA | Co-Founder & CFO
15+ years’ experience in finance, deep understanding of risk, compliance 
and Mobile Payments ecosystem in Asia. Led fundraising efforts as CFO 
at ASX-listed Ensogo, securing strategic investment from VIPSHOP 
(NYSE:VIPS) and raising over AUD 50m from blue chip institutions 
like Fidelity, Goldman Sachs and BlackRock. CFO at Mobile Payment 
Solution, a MasterCard incubated technology company and Finance 
Director at Embraer S.A., aerospace conglomerate that produces 
commercial, military, executive and agricultural aircraft.
Gary Or | Co-Founder & Founder of Particle B
Hacker, Product Designer, Entrepreneur, 9 years of full stack engineering 
experience (RoR, Elixir, Golang), Keen interest in Machine Learning and 
AI. Gary was platform Architect at Ensogo and CTO at EventXTRA, a 
technology company incorporated in Hong Kong that provides corporate 
event management software.
Bobby Bao | Co-Founder & Head of Corporate Development
Leader of corporate development efforts in Asia. He was China 
Renaissance’s first employee on the M&A team, working on some of the 
most high profile transactions, including the merger between Didi & Kuaidi. 
Bobby is deeply connected within the blockchain industry in the region. 
Named to the 2018 Forbes’ 30 Under 30 List. 
Crypto.com 53
Other Senior Management
Eric Anziani | Chief Operating Officer
Seasoned experience in strategy, partnerships and innovation in Financial 
Services, Retail and Technology. Previously at Goldman Sachs, McKinsey, and 
PayPal in London, Paris, Singapore, and Tokyo. Most recently, Eric led the 
Strategy team at Global Fashion Group and drove significant cross-regional 
strategic programs across its 24 markets with over 9000 employees. 
Jason Lau | Chief Information Security Officer
Multiple award-winning cybersecurity professional, including the, “Hong 
Kong Cybersecurity Professional Award” and “Financial Technologist of the 
Year (Data Privacy)“. Jason was formerly regional Cyber Security Advisor at 
Microsoft, with over 16 years of experience holding executive roles, advising 
international clients such as Credit Suisse, Falcon Private Bank, ETH Zurich, 
Swiss Air Force, Royal Bank of Scotland, Social Security Administration and 
many more. Holds certifications such as, CISSP, CIPP/E, CIPM, CGEIT, CRISC, 
CISA, CISM, CEH, CDNA, CSM, ITIL as well as being on ISACA’s General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Global Working Group, an IAPP Fellow 
of Information Privacy (FIP), and Regional Leader and Co-Chair of the 
International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) Hong Kong Chapter.
Matthew Chan | Chief Technology Officer
15+ years of experience as an executive in IT strategy and cybersecurity. 
A former CTO of a multinational enterprise software company focused on 
monitoring, cybersecurity and compliance, he led the organization to win 
multiple back-to-back industry awards. He is also a former CIO of a multi-
strategy asset management company regulated by the HK SFC, and has 
experience advising international clients such as Baker McKenzie, RBS, 
Credit Suisse and Honda.
Antonio Alvarez | Chief Compliance Officer
Led a successful Anti-Money Laundering (AML) program that was deployed 
across European and Asian markets at Coinbase. He also served as senior 
business leader at Visa and has held senior roles at a number of other 
payments companies including Western Union. During a 13-year tenure 
at American Express, Antonio served in several different roles where he 
was responsible for leading the business transformation and compliance 
governance programs across multiple business lines and geographies.
Crypto.com 54
Steven Kalifowitz | Chief Marketing Officer
Steve began his career at ABC Television before joining HBO, where his 
work as a producer earned him industry recognition with four Emmy 
Award nominations & two Emmy Awards. He has served as a juror and 
speaker at multiple industry events including Cannes Lions, SXSW, 
Spikes Asia, Festival of Media and Dubai Lynx. Steve was most recently 
the president of Localize.city and prior to that, he drove growth and led 
business for R/GA and Twitter across 20 countries throughout APAC & 
MENA.
Mariana Gospodinova | General Manager, Europe
Previously COO of Binance Europe, she headed the operations in Malta 
and looked after the successful launch of the crypto to fiat exchange 
and other local initiatives. Mariana has solid experience in the payment 
industry in Europe, with leadership roles in operations at companies 
including Paysafe and SysPay.
Brent Diehl | Chief Business Officer
Former Head, Prepaid Partner Solutions at Visa. Senior Director Western 
Union International Payments. Responsible for card portfolios outside of 
the United States at Home Depots.
Weiyi Zhang, Ph.D. | Executive Vice President, Head 
of Trading Platform Architect
Formerly Vice President, Quantitative Trading at AP Capital Management 
in Hong Kong, Weiyi led the development of an algorithmic trading 
platform and managed the Asian market arbitrage portfolio. Prior 
to that, Weiyi was Vice President of Electronic Market Making at 
JP Morgan, where he led volatility trading strategy and arbitrage 
strategy development in the automated market making business; and 
Quantitative Trading Strategist of Equity Derivative Trading at Deutsche 
Bank.
Crypto.com 55
Joe Conyers III | Executive Vice President, NFT Platform
Joe most recently served as Chief Strategy Officer at Downtown Music 
Holdings, one of the world’s largest independent music technology and 
service businesses. Joe brings over a decade of experience building 
global businesses that support over a million artists and creators, and 
has been recognized four years in a row as a Billboard Digital Power 
Player. While at Downtown Joe co-founded Songtrust, which has grown 
to become the world’s largest songwriter royalty collection service. Joe’s 
experience supporting the arts and artists started over 15 years ago 
when he co-founded art media company ArtObserved.com.
Chloe Yung | Senior Vice President, Head of Legal
Prior to transitioning into the world of crypto, blockchain and payment, 
Chloe was formerly a regional legal counsel at BNP Paribas Asset 
Management and a practising solicitor at a US law firm. Chloe has 
extensive experience in handling legal matters relating to initial public 
offerings, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory and licensing, fund 
formation and distribution and corporate and commercial transactions.
Jonah Lau | Senior Vice President, Product
Jonah’s passion is to solve customer problems with cutting-edge 
technology. He brings with him a wealth of multidisciplinary experience 
as an entrepreneur, software engineer and former commercial lawyer at a 
leading global law firm. At Crypto.com, Jonah is responsible for building 
and leading the product team to scale and optimize the company’s product 
portfolio, with the objective of driving business and strategic goals.
Cerulean Hu | Senior Vice President. Blockchain Engineering
Lead Engineer at Equichain, Team Lead - Finance and Trading Systems 
at ANX, implemented blockchain solutions at FINCOVA, and was 
responsible for developing trading algorithms at HSBC. 
Ivan Stefanov | Senior Vice President. Risk & Operations
Previously at Skrill and NETELLER, he managed teams across multiple 
markets enhancing fraud prevention and payments setup. Ivan also 
cofounded NOTOLYTIX, an innovative data processing startup that 
caters to all aspects of risk management.
Crypto.com 56
Filomena Ruffa | General Manager, Latin America
Filomena brings with her deep relationships and experience in the 
region, including her role as VP of innovation and strategic partnerships 
for Visa Latin America, where she helped banks and merchants adopt 
disruptive solutions to onboard new consumers in an increasingly digital 
world. Prior to Visa, Filomena held top positions at global payments 
companies including CardinalCommerce, a Visa company, where she 
was GM of the LAC region, and SafetyPay, where she was VP of strategic 
partnerships and alliances.
Nobuyuki Nagahama | General Manager, Japan
Originally from Japan, Nagahama began his career in the broader 
consumer payment space, including merchant acquisition. Nagahama 
also spent time at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he 
led various projects and solution development within the Strategy group. 
Nagahama then spent 14 years as Head of Global Network Processing at 
Visa International Asia-Pacific LLC, where he was responsible for leading 
strategic initiatives in the Japanese market, including the payment 
processing business and the development of the company’s debit and 
prepaid offerings as well as value-added-services of Visa’s payment 
network. Most recently, he held leadership roles at Capgemini Japan.
Teana Baker-Taylor | General Manager, UK
Teana possesses more than 20 years of fintech, payments and digital 
assets experience with expertise in commercial and product strategy, 
policy and communications within leadership roles at global firms such 
as HSBC, Fiverv and Citi. Previously, Teana was the U.K. Director for 
Binance responsible for its U.K. and European expansion and established 
Global Digital Finance, a regulatory advocacy body facilitating global 
policy development with policymakers and regulators for the blockchain 
and digital asset sector.
Kevin Wu | SVP of Engineering and GM of China
Kevin is a seasoned technology professional with over 20 years of 
experience in the Financial Market, Retail Banking, and FinTech industry, 
across China, Hong Kong, and the US. With his technology and cross 
culture background, he has helped many organizations pioneering, 
building & managing Technology Centers in China to support the 
company’s global business growth plan, including Standard Chartered 
Bank, Nomura Security and Lehman Brothers.
Crypto.com 57
Board of Advisors 
To support us on the path forward, we have invited industry-recognized 
leaders to serve as our Board of Advisers, who bring a track record of success 
and expertise in areas ranging from AI, trading technology, product to 
operations and talent.
Antoine Blondeau | Chairman of the Advisory Board
Antoine Blondeau is Founder and Managing Partner of Alpha 
Intelligence Capital, a global venture capital fund focused on deep 
Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning technology companies. Antoine 
has 25 years of experience in the technology industry, having held senior 
leadership positions at Good Technology, Salesforce.com and Sybase. 
Antoine’s career highlights include founding Sentient Technologies, as 
well as leading Dejima as CEO, the company that powered DARPA’s 
foundational CALO project that later evolved into Apple’s Siri. Antoine 
was also COO of Zi Corporation, whose smart text input software was 
embedded in hundreds of millions of devices.
Rob Bier | Organisation Design & Scaling
Rob Bier is Founder and Managing Partner of Trellis Asia, helping 
entrepreneurs develop high-performing teams and build hyperscaling 
organizations. Rob also serves as the non-executive chairman of MoneySmart. 
Rob began his business career at Monitor Group, where he rose to Senior 
Partner and head of their London office. He co-founded antfactory, one of 
Europe’s first digital venture capital firms, and founded and led SPARCK. 
After the acquisition by Citigroup, Rob became an Operating Partner at 
TowerBrook Capital Partners, a US$10b private equity Firm.
Crypto.com 58
Chris Corrado | Trading Technology
Chris Corrado is Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief 
Information Officer of London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG). Prior to 
this, he was a Managing Director at MSCI, responsible for technology, data 
services and program management, CIO/CTO, since 2013. Chris has held 
a variety of senior CTO roles in leading banks, including Morgan Stanley, 
Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch and UBS. He has also worked for high growth 
technology companies such as eBay as CTO and AT&T Wireless as CIO.
Dimitri Tsamados | Talent
Dimitri Tsamados is Partner at Eric Salmon & Partners, a leadership 
advisory and executive search firm. Drawing from over 20 years of 
experience in Asia and a long history of working with high growth 
companies Dimitri advises technology players across Asia. Before joining 
Eric Salmon & Partners, Dimitri was a founding partner of DTCA and a 
partner at CTPartners. He also founded Amhurst Gordon International, a 
search firm which he grew across East Asia and sold in 2005.
Crypto.com 59
Further Information
 
  Crypto.com Homepage: www.crypto.com
  Crypto.org Chain Website: https://crypto.org/
  Crypto.org Chain Github: https://github.com/crypto-com
  Crypto.org Chain Gitter: https://gitter.im/crypto-com/community
  Blog: blog.crypto.com
  Twitter: @cryptocom www.twitter.com/cryptocom
  Facebook: www.facebook.com/CryptoComOfficial
  Instagram: www.instagram.com/CryptoComOfficial
  LinkedIn: hk.linkedin.com/company/cryptocom
  YouTube: www.youtube.com/c/CryptoComOfficial
  Telegram: www.t.me/CryptoComOfficial
  Reddit: www.reddit.com/r/Crypto_com/
Crypto.com 60
© Copyright 2020. For information, please visit crypto.com
