Terra Money:
Stability and Adoption
Evan Kereiakes, Do Kwon, Marco Di Maggio, Nicholas Platias
April 2019
Abstract
While many see the beneﬁts of a price-stable cryptocurrency that combines the best of both
ﬁat and Bitcoin, not many have a clear plan for the adoption of such a currency. Since the
valueofacurrencyasamediumofexchangeismainlydrivenbyitsnetworkeﬀects,asuccessful
new digital currency needs to maximize adoption in order to become useful. We propose a
cryptocurrency, Terra, which is both price-stable and growth-driven. It achieves price-stability
viaanelasticmoneysupply,enabledbystableminingincentives. Italsousesseignioragecreated
byitsmintingoperationsastransactionstimulus,therebyfacilitatingadoption. Thereisdemand
foradecentralized,price-stablemoneyprotocolinbothﬁatandblockchaineconomies. Ifsucha
protocolsucceeds,thenitwillhaveasigniﬁcantimpactasthebestusecaseforcryptocurrencies.
1 Introduction
The price-volatility of cryptocurrencies is a well-studied problem by both academics and market
observers (see for instance, Liu and Tsyvinski, 2018, Makarov and Schoar, 2018). Most cryptocur-
rencies, including Bitcoin, have a predetermined issuance schedule that, together with a strong
speculative demand, contributes to wild ﬂuctuations in price. Bitcoin’s extreme price volatility is
a major roadblock towards its adoption as a medium of exchange or store of value. Intuitively,
nobody wants to pay with a currency that has the potential to double in value in a few days, or
wants to be paid in a currency if its value can signiﬁcantly decline before the transaction is settled.
The problems are aggravated when the transaction requires more time, e.g. for deferred payments
suchasmortgagesoremploymentcontracts,asvolatilitywouldseverelydisadvantageonesideofthe
contract, making the usage of existing digital currencies in these settings prohibitively expensive.
At the core of how the Terra Protocol solves these issues is the idea that a cryptocurrency with
an elastic monetary policy would maintain a stable price, retaining all the censorship resistance
of Bitcoin, and making it viable for use in everyday transactions. However, price-stability is not
suﬃcient for the wide adoption of a currency. Currencies inherently have strong network eﬀects:
a customer is unlikely to switch over to a new currency unless a critical mass of merchants are
ready to accept it, but at the same time, merchants have no reason to invest resources and educate
staﬀ to accept a new currency unless there is signiﬁcant customer demand for it. For this reason,
Bitcoin’s adoption in the payments space has been limited to small businesses whose owners are
personally invested in cryptocurrencies. Our belief is that while an elastic monetary policy is the
solution to the stability problem, an eﬃcient ﬁscal policy can drive adoption. In addition, the
Terra Protocol oﬀers strong incentives for users to join the network with an eﬃcient ﬁscal spending
regime, managed by a Treasury, where multiple stimulus programs compete for ﬁnancing. That
is, proposals from community participants will be vetted by the rest of the ecosystem and, when
approved, they will be ﬁnanced with the objective to increase adoption and expand the potential
use cases. The Terra Protocol with its balance between fostering stability and adoption represents
a meaningful complement to ﬁat currencies as a means of payment and store of value.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We ﬁrst discuss the protocol and how stability
is achieved and maintained, through the calibration of miners’ demand and the use of the native
1
mining Luna token. We then dig deeper into how stable mining incentives are adopted to smooth
out economic ﬂuctuations. Lastly, we discuss how Terra’s ﬁscal policy can be used as an eﬃcient
stimulus to drive adoption.
2 Multi-ﬁat peg monetary policy
A stable-coin mechanism must answer three key questions:
How is price-stability deﬁned? Stability is a relative concept; which asset should a stable-
•
coin be pegged to in order to appeal to the broadest possible audience?
How is price-stability measured? Coin price is exogenous to the Terra blockchain, and
•
an eﬃcient, corruption-resistant price feed is necessary for the system to function properly.
How is price-stability achieved? Whencoinpricehasdeviatedfromthetarget,thesystem
•
needs a way to apply pressures to the market to bring price back to the target.
This section will specify Terra’s answers to the above questions in detail.
2.1 Deﬁning stability against regional ﬁat currencies
The existential objective of a stable-coin is to retain its purchasing power. Given that most goods
and services are consumed domestically, it is important to create crypto-currencies that track the
value of local ﬁat currencies. Though the US Dollar dominates international trade and forex oper-
ations, to the average consumer the dollar exhibits unacceptable volatility against their choice unit
of account.
Recognizing strong regionalities in money, Terra aims to be a family of cryptocurrencies that
are each pegged to the world’s major currencies. Close to genesis, the protocol will issue Terra
currencies pegged to USD, EUR, CNY, JPY, GBP, KRW, and the IMF SDR. Over time, more
currencies will be added to the list by user voting. TerraSDR will be the ﬂagship currency of this
family, given that it exhibits the lowest volatility against any one ﬁat currency (Kereiakes, 2018).
TerraSDR is the currency in which transaction fees, miner rewards and stimulus grants will be
denominated.
It is important, however, for Terra currencies to have access to shared liquidity. For this reason,
the system supports atomic swaps among Terra currencies at their market exchange rates. A
2
user can swap TerraKRW for TerraUSD instantly at the eﬀective KRW/USD exchange rate. This
allows all Terra currencies to share liquidity and macroeconomic ﬂuctuations; a fall in demand by
one currency can quickly be absorbed by the others. We can therefore reason about the stability
of Terra currencies in a group; we will be referring to Terra loosely as a single currency for the
remainder of this paper. As Terra’s ecosystem adds more currencies, its atomic swap functionality
can be an instant solution to cross border transactions and international trade settlements.
2.2 Measuring stability with miner oracles
Since the price of Terra currencies in secondary markets is exogenous to the blockchain, the sys-
tem must rely on a decentralized price oracle to estimate the true exchange rate. We deﬁne the
mechanism for the price oracle as the following:
For any Terra sub-currency in the set of currencies C = TerraKRW, TerraUSD, TerraSDR...
•
miners submit a vote for what they believe to be the current exchange rate in the target ﬁat
asset.
Every n blocks the vote is tallied by taking the weighted medians as the true rates.
•
Some amount of Terra is rewarded to those who voted within 1 standard deviation of the
•
elected median. Those who voted outside may be punished via slashing of their stakes. The
ratio of those that are punished and rewarded may be calibrated by the system every vote to
ensure that a suﬃciently large portion of the miners vote.
Several issues have been raised in implementing decentralized oracles, but chief among them is the
possibility for voters to proﬁt by coordinating on a false price vote. Limiting the vote to a speciﬁc
subset of users with strong vested interest in the system, the miners, can vastly decrease the odds
of such a coordination. A successful coordination event on the price oracle would result in a much
higher loss in the value of the miner stakes than any potential gains, as Luna stakes are time-locked
to the system.
The oracle can also play a role in adding and deprecating Terra currencies. The protocol may
start supporting a new Terra currency when oracle votes for it satisﬁes a submission threshold.
Similarly, the failure to receive a suﬃcient number of oracle votes for several periods could trigger
the deprecation of a Terra currency.
3
2.3 Achieving stability with consistent mining rewards
Once the system has detected that the price of a Terra currency has deviated from its peg, it must
apply pressures to normalize the price. Like any other market, the Terra money market follows the
simple rules of supply and demand for a pegged currency. That is:
Contracting money supply, all conditions held equal, will result in higher relative currency
•
price levels. That is, when price levels are falling below the target, reducing money supply
suﬃciently will return price levels to normalcy.
Expanding money supply, all conditions held equal, will result in lower relative currency
•
price levels. That is, when price levels are rising above the target, increasing money supply
suﬃciently will return price levels to normalcy.
Of course, contracting the supply of money isn’t free; like any other asset, money needs to be
bought from the market. Central banks and governments shoulder contractionary costs for pegged
ﬁatsystemsthroughavarietyofmechanismsincludingintervention,theissuanceofbondsandshort-
term instruments thus incurring interest expenses, and hiking of money market rates and reserve
ratio requirements thus losing revenue. Put in a diﬀerent way, central banks and governments
absorb the volatility of the pegged currencies they issue.
Analogously, Terra miners absorb volatility in Terra supply.
In the short term, miners absorb Terra contraction costs through mining power
•
dilution. During a contraction, the system mints and auctions more mining power to buy
back and burn Terra. This contracts the supply of Terra until its price has returned to the
peg, and temporarily results in mining power dilution.
In the mid to long term, miners are compensated with increased mining rewards.
•
First, the system continues to buy back mining power until a ﬁxed target supply is reached,
thereby creating long-run dependability on available mining power. Second, the system in-
creases mining rewards, which will be explained in more detail in a later section.
In summary, miners bear the costs of Terra volatility in the short term, while being compensated
for it in the long-term. Compared to ordinary users, miners have a long-term vested interest in
4
the stability of the system, with invested infrastructure, trained staﬀ and business models with
high switching cost. The remainder of this section will discuss how the system absorbs short-term
volatility and creates stable long-term incentives for Terra miners.
2.4 Miners absorb short-term Terra volatility
The Terra Protocol runs on a Proof of Stake (PoS) blockchain, where miners need to stake a native
cryptocurrency Luna to mine Terra transactions. At every block period, the protocol elects a block
producer from the set of staked miners, which is entrusted with the work required to produce
the next block by aggregating transactions, achieving consensus among miners, and ensuring that
messages are distributed properly in a short timeframe with high fault tolerance.
The block producer election is weighted by the size of the active miner’s Luna stake. Therefore,
Luna represents mining power in the Terra network. Similar to how a Bitcoin miner’s hash
power represents a pro-rata odds of generating Bitcoin blocks, the Luna stake represents pro-rata
odds of generating Terra blocks.
Luna also serves as the most immediate defense against Terra price ﬂuctuations. The system
uses Luna to make the price for Terra by agreeing to be counter-party to anyone looking to swap
Terra and Luna at Terra’s target exchange rate. More concretely:
When TerraSDR’s price < 1 SDR, users and arbitragers can send 1 TerraSDR to the system
•
and receive 1 SDR’s worth of Luna.
When TerraSDR’s price > 1 SDR, users and arbitragers can send 1 SDR’s worth of Luna to
•
the system and receive 1 TerraSDR.
The system’s willingness to respect the target exchange rate irrespective of market conditions keeps
the market exchange rate of Terra at a tight band around the target exchange rate. An arbitrageur
can extract risk-free proﬁt when 1 TerraSDR = 0.9 SDR by trading TerraSDR for 1 SDR’s worth of
Luna from the system, as opposed to 0.9 SDR’s worth of assets she could get from the open market.
Similarly, she can also extract risk-free proﬁt when 1 TerraSDR = 1.1 SDR by trading in 1 SDR
worth of Luna to the system to get 1.1 SDR worth of TerraSDR, once again beating the price of
the open market.
The system ﬁnances Terra price making via Luna:
5
To buy 1 TerraSDR, the protocol mints and sells Luna worth 1 SDR
•
By selling 1 TerraSDR, the protocol earns Luna worth 1 SDR
•
As Luna is minted to match Terra oﬀers, volatility is moved from Terra price to Luna supply. If
unmitigated, thisLunadilutionpresentsaproblemforminers; theirLunastakesareworthasmaller
portion of total available mining power post-contraction. The system burns a portion of the Luna
it has earned during expansions until Luna supply has reached its 1 billion equilibrium issuance.
Therefore, Luna can have steady demand as a token with pro-rata rights to Terra mining over the
long term. The next section discusses how the system oﬀers stable mining incentives to keep the
market for mining and demand for Luna long-term stable through volatile macroeconomic cycles.
2.5 Miners are compensated with long-term stable rewards
Miners play a foundational role in the security and stability of Terra. They provide the former by
participating in PoS consensus. They provide the latter by absorbing short-term volatility in Terra
demand. Stable demand for mining is a core requirement for both security and stability.
To achieve this, the protocol aims to oﬀer stable and predictable rewards in all economic conditions,
booms and busts alike. The network is best oﬀ when it can consistently compensate those that
protect it.
The protocol has two ways of rewarding miners for their work:
Transaction fees: All Terra transactions pay a small fee to miners. Fees default to 0.1% and
•
are capped at 1%, meaning that transacting with Terra in e-commerce will be much cheaper
than transacting with traditional payment options such as credit cards1.
Seigniorage (Luna burn): When demand for Terra increases, the system mints Terra and
•
earns Luna in return. This is called seigniorage — the value of newly minted currency minus
the cost of issuance (which in this case is zero). The system burns a portion of earned Luna,
which makes miningpowerscarcer. Theremaining portion ofseigniorage goes tothe Treasury
to fund ﬁscal stimulus.
To understand rewards from the perspective of a miner, we look at the basic calculus one has to
go through to determine the viability of a long-term commitment to mining on the Terra network.
1The fee per transaction is capped at 1SDR (1.39 USD at the time of writing), meaning that larger transactions
also pay considerably less than traditional wire transfers
6
After ﬁxed costs, the proﬁt (or loss) from a mining operation for a single unit of mining power (1
Luna)comesdowntorewardsminuscostofworkforthatunit. Abitmoreformally, duringafuture
work period t, proﬁt or loss for a unit of mining power equals
TotalRewards(t)
P(t) = UnitMiningCost(t)
LunaSupply(t)  
Frequent alternations between proﬁt and loss – positive and negative P(t) – would create highly
unstable mining demand. The goal of the protocol is to make this calculus easier and more pre-
dictable. With that in mind, most of the uncertainty in P(t) comes down to the ﬁrst term, ie unit
mining rewards. As a consequence, unit mining rewards are the primary consideration for making
a long-term commitment to the network. Stable unit mining rewards produce stable demand for
mining, while volatile unit mining rewards produce the opposite.
By default, there is uncertainty both in total rewards (from fees) and in the supply of Luna, so
both terms contribute to the volatility in unit rewards. First, rewards from fees tend to increase
when the economy grows and tend to decrease when the economy shrinks. Second, Luna supply
tends to decrease when the economy grows (because Luna is burned from seigniorage), and it
tends to increase when the economy shrinks (because new Luna is issued to buy back Terra). The
implication is that unit mining rewards have a tendency to move strongly in the direction of the
economy, either up or down. By extention this also applies to mining demand.
So in order to create mining demand that is long-term stable, the protocol creates pre-
dictable rewards in all economic conditions. To achieve this, the protocol uses transaction
fees and the rate of Luna burn as levers to oppose changes in unit mining rewards. Transaction fees
aﬀect total rewards, while the rate of Luna burn aﬀects Luna supply – the two determinants of unit
mining rewards. The basic logic is the following:
if unit mining rewards are increasing:
•
– decrease fees
– decrease Luna burn
if unit mining rewards are decreasing:
•
– increase fees
7
– increase Luna burn
While working to smooth out ﬂuctuations in miner compensation, the protocol also targets stable
growth in line with the long-term growth of the Terra economy. This is a natural reward for their
long-term commitment to serving the network.
To formalize those ideas, we discuss the mechanism to smooth out unit mining rewards in more
detail2. FeesandtherateofLunaburn–the“stabilitylevers” –areadjustedeveryweekinresponse
to changes in unit mining rewards. We deﬁne the rate of Luna burn as follows: what portion (%)
of seigniorage does the protocol use to buy back and burn Luna, as opposed to depositing to the
Treasury? Let f , b and R be transaction fees, the rate of Luna burn and unit mining rewards at
t t t
time t respectively. Then the rule for adjusting the values of f and b is the following:
R
t 1
ft+1 = (1+g)   ft
· R ·
t
R
t 1
bt+1 = (1+g)   bt
· R ·
t
The update rules should now make clear what we mean when we say that fees (and Luna burn
rate) oppose changes in unit mining rewards: the current value, f , is multiplied by the inverse
t
change in unit mining rewards, RRt t1. For example, if unit mining rewards were cut in half then
fees would double in response, and conversely if unit mining rewards were to double fees would be
cut in half in response. The result is scaled by a small growth factor, 1+g, that permits gradual
growth in unit mining rewards commensurate with the long-term growth rate of the economy.
Howwelldoesthemechanismworkinpractice? Wehaverunextensivesimulationstostress-test
and reﬁne it under a breadth of assumptions. In what follows we share and discuss a representative
example that applies signiﬁcant stress to the mechanism and sheds light on how it achieves its
objective. We consider a simulated 10 year period during which the Terra economy experiences
both rapid growth and severe turbulence. We demonstrate how the protocol adjusts its stability
levers in response to economic conditions, and how those adjustments in turn shape unit mining
rewards.
2Themechanismwepresentisslightlysimpliﬁed. Weomitafewdetails,egtheprotocolusesmovingaveragesin
mining rewards for robustness and ensures consistent contribution of buybacks relative to fees in all situations.
8
9
The ﬁrst graph shows simulated weekly transaction volume and its annual moving average.
Transaction volume can be thought of as the GDP of the Terra economy. The economy experiences
rapid growth followed by a severe multi-year recession that wipes out 93% of GDP over 3 years
and requires 6 years for full recovery. This scenario is a stern test – if it were describing the price
of Bitcoin it would be by far the longest bear market in its history and tied for worst in terms
of drawdown (equal to the 93% drop between June and November 2011). While we think that
Terra’s adoption-driven demand will be far more stable than Bitcoin’s speculation-driven demand,
the stability mechanism has been designed to conﬁdently withstand Bitcoin-level volatility.
The second graph shows transaction fees and the Luna burn rate, the two levers used by
theprotocoltosmoothoutﬂuctuationsinunitminingrewards. Weobservethatbothmoveopposite
to the direction of the economy (which is also the default direction of unit mining rewards).
Thethirdgraphshowstheannualmovingaverageof unit mining rewards. Thegrowthtarget
we have set in this example is 15% annually. As was designed, unit mining rewards experience
steady growth with low volatility, unpurturbed by the cycles in Terra’s GDP. The adjustments
in fees and the Luna burn rate have successfully absorbed the expected volatility in unit mining
rewards and created predictable growth. This is achieved with fees that average less than 0.5%
(with a momentary peak at the 1% maximum) and a Luna burn rate that averages roughly 50%
(meaning that on average 50% of seigniorage is granted to the Treasury).
Stable demand for mining is a core requirement for the security and stability of Terra. Unit
mining rewards are the primary consideration and the biggest source of risk for miners. They are
by default highly cyclical, hence highly uncertain. Reducing that uncertainty in the face of volatile
conditions is the key to stable mining demand. We have outlined a simple mechanism that uses
transaction fees and Luna burn as levers to achieve this, and demonstrated its eﬀectiveness in the
most severe economic conditions.
3 Growth-driven ﬁscal policy
Despitetheirenormouspotential,smartcontractshavefacedroadblocksinadoptionduetotheprice
volatility of their underlying currency. Price volatility makes smart contracts unusable for most
mainstream ﬁnancial applications, as most users are accustomed to valuing determinate payouts in
insurance,credit,mortgage,andpayroll. TerrawilloﬀerastabledAppplatformorientedtobuilding
10
ﬁnancial applications that use Terra as their underlying currency, thus allowing smart contracts to
mature into a useful infrastructure for mainstream businesses. Terra Platform DApps will help to
drive growth and stabilize the Terra family of currencies by diversifying its use cases. In this section
we discuss how the protocol subsidizes the growth of the more successful applications through its
growth-driven ﬁscal policy.
Nationalgovernmentsuseexpansionaryﬁscalspendingwiththeobjectiveofstimulatinggrowth.
The hope of ﬁscal spending is that the economic activity instigated by the original spending results
in a feedback loop that grows the economy more than the amount of money spent in the initial
stimulus. This concept is captured by the spending multiplier — how many dollars of economic
activity does one dollar of ﬁscal spending generate? The spending multiplier increases with the
marginal propensity to consume, meaning that the eﬀectiveness of the expansionary stimulus is
directly related to how likely economic agents are to increase their spending.
In a previous section, we discussed how Terra seigniorage is directed to both miner rewards and
the Treasury. At this point, it is worth describing how exactly the Treasury implements Terra’s
ﬁscal spending policy, with its core mandate being to stimulate Terra’s growth while ensuring its
stability. In this manner, Terra achieves greater eﬃciency by returning seigniorage not allocated for
stability back to its users.
TheTreasury’smainfocusistheallocationofresourcesderivedfromseignioragetodecentralized
applications (dApp). To receive seigniorage from the Treasury, a dApp needs to register for consid-
eration as an entity that operates on the Terra network. dApps are eligible for funding depending
on their economic activity and use of funding.
The funding procedure for a dApp works as follows:
A dApp applies for an account with the Treasury; the application includes metadata such as
•
the Title, a url leading to a detailed page regarding the use of funding, the wallet address of
the applicant, as well as auditing and governance procedures.
At regular voting intervals, Luna validators vote to accept or reject new dApp applications
•
for Treasury accounts. The net number of votes (yes votes minus no votes) needs to exceed
1/3 of total available validator power for an application to be accepted.
Luna validators can exercise control over which dApps may open accounts with the Treasury.
•
11
The funding itself is determined by validator voting for each funding period in accordance
with a weight that is assigned to each dApp. This allows the Treasury to prioritize dApps
that earn the most funding.
At each voting session, Luna validators have the right to request that a dApp be blacklisted,
•
for example because it behaves dishonestly or fails to account for its use of Treasury funds.
Again,thenetnumberofvotes(yesvotesminusnovotes)needstoexceed1/3oftotalavailable
validatorpowerfortheblacklisttobeenforced. AblacklisteddApplosesaccesstoitsTreasury
account and is no longer eligible for funding.
ThemotivationbehindassigningfundingweightstodAppsistomaximizetheimpactofthestimulus
ontheeconomybyrewardingthedAppsthataremorelikelytohaveapositiveeﬀectontheeconomy.
The Treasury uses two criteria to determine spending allocations: (1) robust economic activity
and (2) eﬃcient use of funding. dApps with a strong track record of adoption receive support
for their continued success, and dApps that have grown relative to their funding are rewarded with
more seigniorage, as they have a successful track record of eﬃciently using their resources.
Those two criteria are combined into a single weight which determines the relative funding that
dApps receive from the aggregate funding pool. For instance, a dApp with a weight of 2 would
receive twice the amount of funding of a dApp with a weight of 1.
We lay out the funding weight equation, followed by a detailed explanation of all the parts: For
a time period t, let TV be a dApp’s transaction volume and F be the Treasury funding received.
t t
Then, the protocol determines the funding weight w for the period as follows:
t
 TV
w = (1  )TV +  t⇤
t   t⇤ F
t⇤ 1
 
The notation * denotes a moving average, so TV would be the moving average of transaction
t⇤
volumeleadinguptotimeperiodt,while TV wouldbeadiﬀerenceofmovingaveragesofdiﬀerent
t⇤
lengths leading up to time period t. One might make the averaging window quarterly for example.
Finally, the funding weights among all dApps are scaled to sum to 1.
The ﬁrst term is proportional to TV , the average transaction volume generated by the
• t⇤
dApp in the recent past. This is an indicator of the dApp’s economic activity, or more
12
simply the size of its micro-economy.
The second term is proportional to  TV /F 1. The numerator describes the trend
t t
• ⇤ ⇤  
in transaction volume — it is the diﬀerence between a more and a less recent average. When
positive,itmeansthatthetransactionvolumeisfollowinganupwardtrajectoryandviceversa.
The denominator is the average funding amount received by the dApp in the recent past, up
to and including the previous period. So the second term describes how economic activity is
changing relative to past funding. Overall, larger values of this ratio capture instances where
the dApp is fast-growingforeach dollarof funding ithas received. This is in factthe spending
multiplier of the funding program, a prime indicator of funding eﬃciency.
Theparameterlisusedtodeterminetherelativeimportanceofeconomicactivityandfunding
•
eﬃciency. If it is set equal to 1/2 then the two terms would have equal contribution. By
decreasing the value of l, the protocol can favor more heavily dApps with larger economies.
Conversely, by increasing the value of l the protocol can favor dApps that are using funding
with high eﬃciency, for example by growing fast with little funding, even if they are smaller
in size.
An important advantage of distributing funding in a programmatic way is that it is simpler, ob-
jective, transparent and streamlined compared to open-ended voting systems. In fact, compared
to decentralized voting systems, it is more predictable, because the inputs used to compute the
funding weights are transparent and slow moving. Furthermore, this system requires less trust in
Luna validators, given that the only authority they are vested with is determining whether or not
a dApp is honest and makes legitimate use of funding.
Overall, the objective of Terra governance is simple: fund the organizations and proposals with
the highest net impact on the economy. This will include dApps solving real problems for users,
increasing Terra’s adoption and as a result increasing the GDP of the Terra economy.
4 Conclusion
We have presented Terra, a stable digital currency that is designed to complement both existing
ﬁat and cryptocurrencies as a way to transact and store value. The protocol adjusts the supply of
Terra in response to changes in demand to keep its price stable. This is achieved using Luna, the
13
mining token whose stable rewards are designed to absorb volatility from changing economic cycles.
Terra also achieves eﬃcient adoption by returning seigniorage not invested in stability back to its
users. Its transparent and democratic distribution mechanism gives dApps the power to attract and
retain users by tapping into Terra’s economic growth.
If Bitcoin’s contribution to cryptocurrency was immutability, and Ethereum expressivity, our
value-addwillbeusability. ThepotentialapplicationsofTerraareimmense. Immediately,weforesee
Terra being used as a medium-of-exchange in online payments, allowing people to transact freely at
a fraction of the fees charged by other payment methods. As the world starts to become more and
more decentralized, we see Terra being used as a dApp platform where price-stable token economies
are built on Terra. Terra is looking to become the ﬁrst usable currency and stability platform
on the blockchain, unlocking the power of decentralization for mainstream users, merchants, and
developers.
14
References
Liu, Yukun and Tsyvinski, Aleh, Risks and Returns of Cryptocurrency (August 2018). NBER Working
Paper No. w24877. Available at https://ssrn.com/abstract=3226806.
Makarov, Igor and Schoar, Antoinette, Trading and Arbitrage in Cryptocurrency Markets (April 30, 2018).
Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171204.
Kereiakes,Evan,RationaleforIncludingMultipleFiatCurrenciesinTerra’sPeg(November2018). Available
athttps://medium.com/terra-money/rationale-for-including-multiple-ﬁat-currencies-in-terras-peg-1ea9eae9de2a
Taylor, John B. (1993). "Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice." Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series
on Public Policy. 39: 195–214.
15
