Avalanche Platform2020/06/30Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun SirerAbstract. This paper provides an architectural overview of the  rst release of the Avalanche platform,codenamed Avalanche Borealis. 5 For details on the economics of the native token, labeled $AVAX, weguide the reader to the accompanying token dynamics paper [2].Disclosure: The information described in this paper is preliminary and subject to change at any time.Furthermore, this paper may contain \forward-looking statements."1Git Commit: 7497e4a4ba0a1ea2dc2a111bc6deefbf3023708e10 1 IntroductionThis paper provides an architectural overview of the Avalanche platform. The key focus is on the three keydi erentiators of the platform: the engine, the architectural model, and the governance mechanism.1.1 Avalanche Goals and PrinciplesAvalanche is a high-performance, scalable, customizable, and secure blockchain platform. It targets three15 broad use cases:{ Building application-speci c blockchains, spanning permissioned (private) and permissionless (public)deployments.{ Building and launching highly scalable and decentralized applications (Dapps).{ Building arbitrarily complex digital assets with custom rules, covenants, and riders (smart assets).1 Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future performance. This includes, but is notlimited to, Avalanche's projected performance; the expected development of its business and projects; executionof its vision and growth strategy; and completion of projects that are currently underway, in development orotherwise under consideration. Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptionsonly as of the date of this presentation. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and unduereliance should not be placed on them. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknownrisks, which may cause actual performance and results in future periods to di er materially from any projectionsexpressed or implied herein. Avalanche undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Althoughforward-looking statements are our best prediction at the time they are made, there can be no assurance that theywill prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could di er materially. The reader is cautioned notto place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.2 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun SirerThe overarching 20 aim of Avalanche is to provide a unifying platform for the creation, transfer, and trade ofdigital assets.By construction, Avalanche possesses the following properties:Scalable Avalanche is designed to be massively scalable, robust, and e cient. The core consensus engineis able to support a global network of potentially hundreds of millions of internet-connected, low and high25powered devices that operate seamlessly, with low latencies and very high transactions per second.Secure Avalanche is designed to be robust and achieve high security. Classical consensus protocols aredesigned to withstand up to f attackers, and fail completely when faced with an attacker of size f + 1 orlarger, and Nakamoto consensus provides no security when 51% of the miners are Byzantine. In contrast,Avalanche provides a very strong guarantee of safety when the attacker is below a certain threshold, which30 can be parametrized by the system designer, and it provides graceful degradation when the attacker exceedsthis threshold. It can uphold safety (but not liveness) guarantees even when the attacker exceeds 51%. It isthe  rst permissionless system to provide such strong security guarantees.Decentralized Avalanche is designed to provide unprecedented decentralization. This implies a commitmentto multiple client implementations and no centralized control of any kind. The ecosystem is designed to avoid35 divisions between classes of users with di erent interests. Crucially, there is no distinction between miners,developers, and users.Governable and Democratic $AVAX is a highly inclusive platform, which enables anyone to connect to itsnetwork and participate in validation and  rst-hand in governance. Any token holder can have a vote inselecting key  nancial parameters and in choosing how the system evolves.40 Interoperable and Flexible Avalanche is designed to be a universal and exible infrastructure for a multitudeof blockchains/assets, where the base $AVAX is used for security and as a unit of account for exchange. Thesystem is intended to support, in a value-neutral fashion, many blockchains to be built on top. The platformis designed from the ground up to make it easy to port existing blockchains onto it, to import balances, tosupport multiple scripting languages and virtual machines, and to meaningfully support multiple deployment45 scenarios.Outline The rest of this paper is broken down into four major sections. Section 2 outlines the details of theengine that powers the platform. Section 3 discusses the architectural model behind the platform, includingsubnetworks, virtual machines, bootstrapping, membership, and staking. Section 4 explains the governancemodel that enables dynamic changes to key economic parameters. Finally, in Section 5 explores various50 peripheral topics of interest, including potential optimizations, post-quantum cryptography, and realisticadversaries.Avalanche Platform 2020/06/30 3Naming Convention The name of the platform is Avalanche, and is typically referred to as \the Avalancheplatform", and is interchangeable/synonymous with \the Avalanche network", or { simply { Avalanche.Codebases will be released using three numeric identi ers, labeled \v.[0-9].[0-9].[0-100]", where the rst number identi es major 55 releases, the second number identi es minor releases, and the third numberidenti es patches. The  rst public release, codenamed Avalanche Borealis, is v. 1.0.0. The native tokenof the platform is called \$AVAX". The family of consensus protocols used by the Avalanche platform isreferred to as the Snow* family. There are three concrete instantiations, called Avalanche, Snowman, andFrosty.60 2 The EngineDiscussion of the Avalanche platform begins with the core component which powers the platform: theconsensus engine.Background Distributed payments and { more generally { computation, require agreement between a setof machines. Therefore, consensus protocols, which enable a group of nodes to achieve agreement, lie at the65 heart of blockchains, as well as almost every deployed large-scale industrial distributed system. The topichas received extensive scrutiny for almost  ve decades, and that e ort, to date, has yielded just two familiesof protocols: classical consensus protocols, which rely on all-to-all communication, and Nakamoto consensus,which relies on proof-of-work mining coupled with the longest-chain-rule. While classical consensus protocolscan have low latency and high throughput, they do not scale to large numbers of participants, nor are they70 robust in the presence of membership changes, which has relegated them mostly to permissioned, mostlystatic deployments. Nakamoto consensus protocols [5, 7, 4], on the other hand, are robust, but su er fromhigh con rmation latencies, low throughput, and require constant energy expenditure for their security.The Snow* family of protocols, introduced by Avalanche, combine the best properties of classical consensusprotocols with the best of Nakamoto consensus. Based on a lightweight network sampling mechanism,75 they achieve low latency and high throughput without needing to agree on the precise membership of thesystem. They scale well from thousands to millions of participants with direct participation in the consensusprotocol. Further, the protocols do not make use of PoW mining, and therefore avoid its exorbitantenergy expenditure and subsequent leak of value in the ecosystem, yielding lightweight, green, and quiescentprotocols.80 Mechanism and Properties The Snow* protocols operate by repeated sampling of the network. Each nodepolls a small, constant-sized, randomly chosen set of neighbors, and switches its proposal if a supermajoritysupports a di erent value. Samples are repeated until convergence is reached, which happens rapidly innormal operations.We elucidate the mechanism of operation via a concrete example. First, a transaction is created by85 a user and sent to a validating node, which is a node participating in the consensus procedure. It is thenpropagated out to other nodes in the network via gossiping. What happens if that user also issues a conicting4 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun Sirertransaction, that is, a doublespend? To choose amongst the conicting transactions and prevent the doublespend,every node randomly selects a small subset of nodes and queries which of the conicting transactionsthe queried nodes think is the valid one. If the querying node receives a supermajority response in favorof one transaction, then the node 90 changes its own response to that transaction. Every node in the networkrepeats this procedure until the entire network comes to consensus on one of the conicting transactions.Surprisingly, while the core mechanism of operation is quite simple, these protocols lead to highlydesirable system dynamics that make them suitable for large-scale deployment.{ Permissionless, Open to Churn, and Robust. The latest slew of blockchain projects employ classical95 consensus protocols and therefore require full membership knowledge. Knowing the entire set of participantsis su ciently simple in closed, permissioned systems, but becomes increasingly hard in open,decentralized networks. This limitation imposes high security risks to existing incumbents employingsuch protocols. In contrast, Snow* protocols maintain high safety guarantees even when there are wellquanti ed discrepancies between the network views of any two nodes. Validators of Snow* protocols100 enjoy the ability to validate without continuous full membership knowledge. They are, therefore, robustand highly suitable for public blockchains.{ Scalable and Decentralized A core feature of the Snow family is its ability to scale without incurringfundamental tradeo s. Snow protocols can scale to tens of thousands or millions of nodes, without delegationto subsets of validators. These protocols enjoy the best-in-class system decentralization, allowing105 every node to fully validate. First-hand continuous participation has deep implications for the securityof the system. In almost every proof-of-stake protocol that attempts to scale to a large participant set,the typical mode of operation is to enable scaling by delegating validation to a subcommittee. Naturally,this implies that the security of the system is now precisely as high as the corruption cost of thesubcommittee. Subcommittees are furthermore subject to cartel formation.110 In Snow-type protocols, such delegation is not necessary, allowing every node operator to have a  rsthandsay in the system, at all times. Another design, typically referred to as state sharding, attemptsto provide scalability by parallelizing transaction serialization to independent networks of validators.Unfortunately, the security of the system in such a design becomes only as high as the easiest corruptibleindependent shard. Therefore, neither subcommittee election nor sharding are suitable scaling strategies115 for crypto platforms.{ Adaptive. Unlike other voting-based systems, Snow* protocols achieve higher performance when theadversary is small, and yet highly resilient under large attacks.{ Asynchronously Safe. Snow* protocols, unlike longest-chain protocols, do not require synchronicity tooperate safely, and therefore prevent double-spends even in the face of network partitions. In Bitcoin,120 for example, if synchronicity assumption is violated, it is possible to operate to independent forks of theBitcoin network for prolonged periods of time, which would invalidate any transactions once the forksheal.{ Low Latency. Most blockchains today are unable to support business applications, such as trading or dailyretail payments. It is simply unworkable to wait minutes, or even hours, for con rmation of transactions.125 Therefore, one of the most important, and yet highly overlooked, properties of consensus protocols is thetime to  nality. Snow* protocols reach  nality typically in   1 second, which is signi cantly lower thanboth longest-chain protocols and sharded blockchains, both of which typically span  nality to a matterof minutes.Avalanche Platform 2020/06/30 5{ High Throughput. Snow* protocols, which can build a linear chain or a DAG, reach thousands of transactionsper second (5000+ 130 tps), while retaining full decentralization. New blockchain solutions that claimhigh TPS typically trade o  decentralization and security and opt for more centralized and insecureconsensus mechanisms. Some projects report numbers from highly controlled settings, thus misreportingtrue performance results. The reported numbers for $AVAX are taken directly from a real, fully implementedAvalanche network running on 2000 nodes on AWS, geo-distributed across the globe on low-end135 machines. Higher performance results (10,000+) can be achieved through assuming higher bandwidthprovisioning for each node and dedicated hardware for signature veri cation. Finally, we note that theaforementioned metrics are at the base-layer. Layer-2 scaling solutions immediately augment these resultsconsiderably.Comparative Charts of Consensus Table 1 describes the di erences between the three known families140 of consensus protocols through a set of 8 critical axes.Nakamoto Classical Snow*Robust (Suitable for Open Settings) + - +Highly Decentralized (Allows Many Validators) + - +Low Latency and Quick Finality (Fast Transaction Con rmation) - + +High Throughput (Allows Many Clients) - + +Lightweight (Low System Requirements) - + +Quiescent (Not Active When No Decisions Performed) - + +Safety Parameterizable (Beyond 51% Adversarial Presence) - - +Highly Scalable - - +Table 1. Comparative chart between the three known families of consensus protocols. Avalanche, Snowman, andFrosty all belong to the Snow* family.3 Platform OverviewIn this section, we provide an architectural overview of the platform and discuss various implementationdetails. The Avalanche platform cleanly separates three concerns: chains (and assets built on top), executionenvironments, and deployment.145 3.1 ArchitectureSubnetworks A subnetwork, or subnet, is a dynamic set of validators working together to achieve consensuson the state of a set of blockchains. Each blockchain is validated by one subnet, and a subnet can validatearbitrarily many blockchains. A validator may be a member of arbitrarily many subnets. A subnet decideswho may enter it, and may require that its constituent validators have certain properties. The Avalanche150 platform supports the creation and operation of arbitrarily many subnets. In order to create a new subnetor to join a subnet, one must pay a fee denominated in $AVAX.6 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun SirerThe subnet model o ers a number of advantages:{ If a validator doesn't care about the blockchains in a given subnet, it will simply not join that subnet.This reduces network tra c, as well as the computational resources required of validators. This is incontrast to other blockchain 155 projects, in which every validator must validate every transaction, eventhose they don't care about.{ Since subnets decide who may enter them, one can create private subnets. That is, each blockchain inthe subnet is validated only by a set of trusted validators.{ One can create a subnet where each validator has certain properties. For example, one could create a160 subnet where each validator is located in a certain jurisdiction, or where each validator is bound by somereal-world contract. This may be beni cial for compliance reasons.There is one special subnet called the Default Subnet. It is validated by all validators. (That is, in orderto validate any subnet, one must also validate the Default Subnet.) The Default Subnet validates a set ofpre-de ned blockchains, including the blockchain where $AVAX lives and is traded.165 Virtual Machines Each blockchain is an instance of a Virtual Machine (VM.) A VM is a blueprint for ablockchain, much like a class is a blueprint for an object in an object-oriented programming language. Theinterface, state and behavior of a blockchain is de ned by the VM that the blockchain runs. The followingproperties of a blockchain, and other, are de ned by a VM:{ The contents of a block170 { The state transition that occurs when a block is accepted{ The APIs exposed by the blockchain and their endpoints{ The data that is persisted to diskWe say that a blockchain \uses" or \runs" a given VM. When creating a blockchain, one speci es the VMit runs, as well as the genesis state of the blockchain. A new blockchain can be created using a pre-existing175 VM, or a developer can code a new one. There can be arbitrarily many blockchains that run the same VM.Each blockchain, even those running the same VM, is logically independent from others and maintains itsown state.3.2 BootstrappingThe  rst step in participating in Avalanche is bootstrapping. The process occurs in three stages: connection180 to seed anchors, network and state discovery, and becoming a validator.Seed Anchors Any networked system of peers that operates without a permissioned (i.e. hard-coded)set of identities requires some mechanism for peer discovery. In peer-to-peer  le sharing networks, a set oftrackers are used. In crypto networks, a typical mechanism is the use of DNS seed nodes (which we referAvalanche Platform 2020/06/30 7to as seed anchors), which comprise a set of well-de ned seed-IP addresses from which other members ofthe network can be discovered. 185 The role of DNS seed nodes is to provide useful information about the setof active participants in the system. The same mechanism is employed in Bitcoin Core [1], wherein thesrc/chainparams.cpp  le of the source code holds a list of hard-coded seed nodes. The di erence betweenBTC and Avalanche is that BTC requires just one correct DNS seed node, while Avalanche requires a simplemajority of the anchors to be correct. As an example, a new user may choose to bootstrap the network view190 through a set of well established and reputable exchanges, any one of which individually are not trusted.We note, however, that the set of bootstrap nodes does not need to be hard-coded or static, and can beprovided by the user, though for ease of use, clients may provide a default setting that includes economicallyimportant actors, such as exchanges, with which clients wish to share a world view. There is no barrier tobecome a seed anchor, therefore a set of seed anchors can not dictate whether a node may or may not enter195 the network, since nodes can discover the latest network of Avalanche peers by attaching to any set of seedanchors.Network and State Discovery Once connected to the seed anchors, a node queries for the latest set ofstate transitions. We call this set of state transitions the accepted frontier. For a chain, the accepted frontieris the last accepted block. For a DAG, the accepted frontier is the set of vertices that are accepted, yet have200 no accepted children. After collecting the accepted frontiers from the seed anchors, the state transitions thatare accepted by a majority of the seed anchors is de ned to be accepted. The correct state is then extractedby synchronizing with the sampled nodes. As long as there is a majority of correct nodes in the seed anchorset, then the accepted state transitions must have been marked as accepted by at least one correct node.This state discovery process is also used for network discovery. The membership set of the network is205 de ned on the validator chain. Therefore, synchronizing with the validator chain allows the node to discoverthe current set of validators. The validator chain will be discussed further in the next section.3.3 Sybil Control and MembershipConsensus protocols provide their security guarantees under the assumption that up to a threshold numberof members in the system could be adversarial. A Sybil attack, wherein a node cheaply oods the network210 with malicious identities, can trivially invalidate these guarantees. Fundamentally, such an attack can only bedeterred by trading o  presence with proof of a hard-to-forge resource [3]. Past systems have explored the useof Sybil deterrence mechanisms that span proof-of-work (PoW), proof-of-stake (PoS), proof-of-elapsed-time(POET), proof-of-space-and-time (PoST), and proof-of-authority (PoA).At their core, all of these mechanisms serve an identical function: they require that each participant have215 some \skin in the game" in the form of some economic commitment, which in turn provides an economicbarrier against misbehavior by that participant. All of them involve a form of stake, whether it is in the formof mining rigs and hash power (PoW), disk space (PoST), trusted hardware (POET), or an approved identity(PoA). This stake forms the basis of an economic cost that participants must bear to acquire a voice. Forinstance, in Bitcoin, the ability to contribute valid blocks is directly proportional to the hash-power of the220 proposing participant. Unfortunately, there has also been substantial confusion between consensus protocols8 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun Sirerversus Sybil control mechanisms. We note that the choice of consensus protocols is, for the most part,orthogonal to the choice of the Sybil control mechanism. This is not to say that Sybil control mechanisms aredrop-in-replacements for each other, since a particular choice might have implications about the underlyingguarantees of the consensus protocol. However, the Snow* family can be coupled with many of these known225 mechanisms, without signi cant modi cation.Ultimately, for security and to ensure that the incentives of participants are aligned for the bene t ofthe network, $AVAX choose PoS to the core Sybil control mechanism. Some forms of stake are inherentlycentralized: mining rig manufacturing (PoW), for instance, is inherently centralized in the hands of a fewpeople with the appropriate know-how and access to the dozens of patents required for competitive VLSI230 manufacturing. Furthermore, PoW mining leaks value due to the large yearly miner subsidies. Similarly,disk space is most abundantly owned by large datacenter operators.Further, all sybil control mechanismsthat accrue ongoing costs, e.g. electricity costs for hashing, leak value out of the ecosystem, not to mentiondestroy the environment. This, in turn, reduces the feasibility envelope for the token, wherein an adverseprice move over a small time frame can render the system inoperable. Proof-of-work inherently selects for235 miners who have the connections to procure cheap electricity, which has little to do with the miners' abilityto serialize transactions or their contributions to the overall ecosystem. Among these options, we chooseproof-of-stake, because it is green, accessible, and open to all. We note, however, that while the $AVAX usesPoS, the Avalanche network enables subnets to be launched with PoW and PoS.Staking is a natural mechanism for participation in an open network because it enables a direct economic240 argument: the probability of success of an attack is directly proportional to a well-de ned monetary costfunction. In other words, the nodes that stake are economically motivated to not engage in behavior thatmight hurt the value of their stake. Additionally, this stake does not incur any additional upkeep costs (otherthen the opportunity cost of investing in another asset), and has the property that, unlike mining equipment,is fully consumed if used in a catastrophic attack. For PoW operations, mining equipment can be simply245 reused or { if the owner decides to { entirely sold back to the market.A node wishing to enter the network can freely do so by  rst putting up a stake that is immobilizedduring the duration of participation in the network. The user determines the amount duration of the stake.Once accepted, a stake cannot be reverted. The main goal is to ensure that nodes substantially share thesame mostly stable view of the network. We anticipate setting the minimum staking time on the order of a250 week.Unlike other systems that also propose a PoS mechanism, $AVAX does not make usage of slashing, andtherefore all stake is returned when the staking period expires. This prevents unwanted scenarios such asa client software or hardware failure leading to a loss of coins. This dovetails with our design philosophyof building predictable technology: the staked tokens are not at risk, even in the presence of software or255 hardware aws.In Avalanche, a node that wants to participate issues a special stake transaction to the validator chain.Staking transactions name an amount to stake, the staking key of the participant that is staking, the duration,and the time that validation will start. Once the transaction is accepted, the funds will be locked until theend of the staking period. The minimal allowed amount is decided and enforced by the system. The stake260 amount placed by a participant has implications for both the amount of inuence the participant has in theAvalanche Platform 2020/06/30 9consensus process, as well as the reward, as discussed later. The speci ed staking duration, must be between min and  max, the minimum and maximum timeframes for which any stake can be locked. As with thestaking amount, the staking period also has implications for the reward in the system. Loss or theft of thestaking key cannot lead to asset loss, as the staking key is used only in the consensus process, not for asset265 transfer.3.4 Smart Contracts in $AVAXAt launch Avalanche supports standard Solidity-based smart contracts through the Ethereum virtual machine(EVM). We envision that the platform will support a richer and more powerful set of smart contracttools, including:270 { Smart contracts with o -chain execution and on-chain veri cation.{ Smart contracts with parallel execution. Any smart contracts that do not operate on the same state inany subnet in Avalanche will be able to execute in parallel.{ An improved Solidity, called Solidity++. This new language will support versioning, safe mathematicsand  xed point arithmetic, an improved type system, compilation to LLVM, and just-in-time execution.275 If a developer requires EVM support but wants to deploy smart contracts in a private subnet, theycan spin-up a new subnet directly. This is how Avalanche enables functionality-speci c sharding throughthe subnets. Furthermore, if a developer requires interactions with the currently deployed Ethereum smartcontracts, they can interact with the Athereum subnet, which is a spoon of Ethereum. Finally, if a developerrequires a di erent execution environment from the Ethereum virtual machine, they may choose to deploy280 their smart contract through a subnet that implements a di erent execution environment, such as DAMLor WASM. Subnets can support additional features beyond VM behavior. For example, subnets can enforceperformance requirements for bigger validator nodes that hold smart contracts for longer periods of time, orvalidators that hold contract state privately.4 Governance and The $AVAX Token285 4.1 The $AVAX Native TokenMonetary Policy The native token, $AVAX, is capped-supply, where the cap is set at 720; 000; 000 tokens,with 360; 000; 000 tokens available on mainnet launch. However, unlike other capped-supply tokens whichbake the rate of minting perpetually, $AVAX is designed to react to changing economic conditions. In particular,the objective of $AVAX's monetary policy is to balance the incentives of users to stake the token290 versus using it to interact with the variety of services available on the platform. Participants in the platformcollectively act as a decentralized reserve bank. The levers available on Avalanche are staking rewards, fees,and airdrops, all of which are inuenced by governable parameters. Staking rewards are set by on-chain governance,and are ruled by a function designed to never surpass the capped supply. Staking can be inducedby increasing fees or increasing staking rewards. On the other hand, we can induce increased engagement295 with the Avalanche platform services by lowering fees, and decreasing the staking reward.10 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun SirerUsesPayments True decentralized peer-to-peer payments are largely an unrealized dream for the industry due tothe current lack of performance from incumbents. $AVAX is as powerful and easy to use as payments usingVisa, allowing thousands of transactions globally every second, in a fully trustless, decentralized manner.Furthermore, for merchants worldwide, 300 $AVAX provides a direct value proposition over Visa, namely lowerfees.Staking: Securing the System On the Avalanche platform, sybil control is achieved via staking. In orderto validate, a participant must lock up coins, or stake. Validators, sometimes referred to as stakers, arecompensated for their validation services based on staking amount and staking duration, amongst other305 properties. The chosen compensation function should minimize variance, ensuring that large stakers do notdisproportionately receive more compensation. Participants are also not subject to any \luck" factors, as inPoW mining. Such a reward scheme also discourages the formation of mining or staking pools enabling trulydecentralized, trustless participation in the network.Atomic swaps Besides providing the core security of the system, the $AVAX token serves as the universal unit310 of exchange. From there, the Avalanche platform will be able to support trustless atomic swaps natively onthe platform enabling native, truly decentralized exchanges of any type of asset directly on Avalanche.4.2 GovernanceGovernance is critical to the development and adoption of any platform because { as with all other typesof systems { Avalanche will also face natural evolution and updates. $AVAX provides on-chain governance315 for critical parameters of the network where participants are able to vote on changes to the network andsettle network upgrade decisions democratically. This includes factors such as the minimum staking amount,minting rate, as well as other economic parameters. This enables the platform to e ectively perform dynamicparameter optimization through a crowd oracle. However, unlike some other governance platformsout there, Avalanche does not allow unlimited changes to arbitrary aspects of the system. Instead, only a320 pre-determined number of parameters can be modi ed via governance, rendering the system more predictableand increasing safety. Further, all governable parameters are subject to limits within speci c time bounds,introducing hysteresis, and ensuring that the system remains predictable over short time ranges.A workable process for  nding globally acceptable values for system parameters is critical for decentralizedsystems without custodians. Avalanche can use its consensus mechanism to build a system that allows325 anyone to propose special transactions that are, in essence, system-wide polls. Any participating node mayissue such proposals.Nominal reward rate is an important parameter that a ects any currency, whether digital or  at. Unfortunately,cryptocurrencies that  x this parameter might face various issues, including deation or ination.To that end, the nominal reward rate is subject to governance, within pre-established boundaries. This will330 allow token holders to choose on whether $AVAX is eventually capped, uncapped, or even deationary.Avalanche Platform 2020/06/30 11Transaction fees, denoted by the set F, are also subject to governance. F is e ectively a tuple which describesthe fees associated with the various instructions and transactions. Finally, staking times and amountsare also governable. The list of these parameters is de ned in Figure 1.{   : Staking amount, denominated in $AVAX. This value de nes the minimal stake required to be placed asbond before participating in the system.{  min : The minimal amount of time required for a node to stake into the system.{  max : The maximal amount of time a node can stake.{   : (  ;    min) ! R : Reward rate function, also referred to as minting rate, determines the reward aparticipant can claim as a function of their staking amount given some number of   publicly disclosed nodesunder its ownership, over a period of   consecutive  min timeframes, such that    min    max.{ F : the fee structure, which is a set of governable fees parameters that specify costs to various transactions.Fig. 1. Key non-consensus parameters used in Avalanche. All notation is rede ned upon  rst use.In line with the principle of predictability in a  nancial system, governance in $AVAX has hysteresis,meaning that changes to 335 parameters are highly dependent on their recent changes. There are two limitsassociated with each governable parameter: time and range. Once a parameter is changed using a governancetransaction, it becomes very di cult to change it again immediately and by a large amount. These di cultyand value constraints relax as more time passes since the last change. Overall, this keeps the system fromchanging drastically over a short period of time, allowing users to safely predict system parameters in the340 short term, while having strong control and exibility for the long term.5 Discussion5.1 OptimizationsPruning Many blockchain platforms, especially those implementing Nakamoto consensus such as Bitcoin,su er from perpetual state growth. This is because { by protocol { they have to store the entire history of345 transactions. However, in order for a blockchain to grow sustainably, it must be able to prune old history.This is especially important for blockchains that support high performance, such as Avalanche.Pruning is simple in the Snow* family. Unlike in Bitcoin (and similar protocols), where pruning is notpossible per the algorithmic requirements, in $AVAX nodes do not need to maintain parts of the DAG thatare deep and highly committed. These nodes do not need to prove any past history to new bootstrapping350 nodes, and therefore simply have to store active state, i.e. the current balances, as well as uncommittedtransactions.Client Types Avalanche can support three di erent types of clients: archival, full, and light. Archivalnodes store the entire history of the $AVAX subnet, the staking subnet, and the smart contract subnet, all the12 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun Sirerway to genesis, meaning that these nodes serve as bootstrapping nodes for new incoming nodes. Additionallythese nodes may store the full 355 history of other subnets for which they choose to be validators. Archivalnodes are typically machines with high storage capabilities that are paid by other nodes when downloadingold state. Full nodes, on the other hand, participate in validation, but instead of storing all history, theysimply store the active state (e.g. current UTXO set). Finally, for those that simply need to interact securelywith the network using the most minimal amount of resources, Avalanche supports light clients which can360 prove that some transaction has been committed without needing to download or synchronize history. Lightclients engage in the repeated sampling phase of the protocol to ensure safe commitment and network wideconsensus. Therefore, light clients in Avalanche provide the same security guarantees as full nodes.Sharding Sharding is the process of partitioning various system resources in order to increase performanceand reduce load. There are various types of sharding mechanisms. In network sharding, the set of participants365 is divided into separate subnetworks as to reduce algorithmic load; in state sharding, participants agree onstoring and maintaining only speci c subparts of the entire global state; lastly, in transaction sharding,participants agree to separate the processing of incoming transactions.In Avalanche Borealis, the  rst form of sharding exists through the subnetworks functionality. Forexample, one may launch a gold subnet and another real-estate subnet. These two subnets can exist entirely in370 parallel. The subnets interact only when a user wishes to buy real-estate contracts using their gold holdings,at which point Avalanche will enable an atomic swap between the two subnets.5.2 ConcernsPost Quantum Cryptography Post-quantum cryptography has recently gained widespread attentiondue to the advances in the development of quantum computers and algorithms. The concern with quantum375 computers is that they can break some of the currently deployed cryptographic protocols, speci cally digitalsignatures. The Avalanche network model enables any number of VMs, so it supports a quantum-resistantvirtual machine with a suitable digital signature mechanism. We anticipate several types of digital signatureschemes to be deployed, including quantum resistant RLWE-based signatures. The consensus mechanismdoes not assume any kind of heavy crypto for its core operation. Given this design, it is straightforward to380 extend the system with a new virtual machine that provides quantum secure cryptographic primitives.Realistic Adversaries The Avalanche paper [6] provides very strong guarantees in the presence of apowerful and hostile adversary, known as a round-adaptive adversary in the full point-to-point model. Inother terms, the adversary has full access to the state of every single correct node at all times, knows therandom choices of all correct nodes, as well as can update its own state at any time, before and after the385 correct node has the chance to update its own state. E ectively, this adversary is all powerful, except forthe ability to directly update the state of a correct node or modify the communication between correctnodes. Nonetheless, in reality, such an adversary is purely theoretical since practical implementations of thestrongest possible adversary are limited at statistical approximations of the network state. Therefore, inpractice, we expect worst-case-scenario attacks to be di cult to deploy.Avalanche Platform 2020/06/30 13Inclusion and Equality 390 A common problem in permissionless currencies is that of the \rich gettingricher". This is a valid concern, since a PoS system that is improperly implemented may in fact allowwealth generation to be disproportionately attributed to the already large holders of stake in the system. Asimple example is that of leader-based consensus protocols, wherein a subcommittee or a designated leadercollects all the rewards during its operation, and where the probability of being chosen to collect rewards is395 proportional to the stake, accruing strong reward compounding e ects. Further, in systems such as Bitcoin,there is a \big get bigger" phenomenon where the big miners enjoy a premium over smaller ones in termsof fewer orphans and less lost work. In contrast, Avalanche employs an egalitarian distribution of minting:every single participant in the staking protocol is rewarded equitably and proportionally based on stake.By enabling very large numbers of people to participate  rst-hand in staking, Avalanche can accommodate400 millions of people to participate equally in staking. The minimum amount required to participate in theprotocol will be up for governance, but it will be initialized to a low value to encourage wide participation.This also implies that delegation is not required to participate with a small allocation.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we discussed the architecture of the Avalanche platform. Compared to other platforms today,405 which either run classical-style consensus protocols and therefore are inherently non-scalable, or make usage ofNakamoto-style consensus that is ine cient and imposes high operating costs, the Avalanche is lightweight,fast, scalable, secure, and e cient. The native token, which serves for securing the network and paying forvarious infrastructural costs is simple and backwards compatible. $AVAX has capacity beyond other proposalsto achieve higher levels of decentralization, resist attacks, and scale to millions of nodes without any quorum410 or committee election, and hence without imposing any limits to participation.Besides the consensus engine, Avalanche innovates up the stack, and introduces simple but importantideas in transaction management, governance, and a slew of other components not available in other platforms.Each participant in the protocol will have a voice in inuencing how the protocol evolves at all times,made possible by a powerful governance mechanism. Avalanche supports high customizability, allowing415 nearly instant plug-and-play with existing blockchains.References1. Bitcoin: bitcoin/bitcoin (Oct 2018), https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin2. Buttolph, S., Moin, A., Sekniqi, K., Sirer, E.G.: Avalanche token paper - token dynamics (2019),https:// les.avalabs.org/papers/token.pdf420 3. Douceur, J.R.: The sybil attack. In: InternationalWorkshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems. pp. 251{260. Springer (2002)4. Eyal, I., Gencer, A.E., Sirer, E.G., van Renesse, R.: Bitcoin-ng: A scalable blockchain protocol. In: 13th USENIXSymposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation, NSDI 2016, Santa Clara, CA, USA, March 16-18,2016. pp. 45{59 (2016), https://www.usenix.org/conference/nsdi16/technical-sessions/presentation/eyal5. Nakamoto, S.: Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system (2008)425 6. Rocket, T.: Snowake to Avalanche: A novel metastable consensus protocol family for cryptocurrencies. IPFS(2018),https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUy4jh5mGNZvLkjies1RWM4YuvJh5o2FYopNPVYwrRVGV14 Kevin Sekniqi, Daniel Laine, Stephen Buttolph, and Emin Gun Sirer7. Wood, G.: Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger (2014)